
<h2>BEST SIG - Education</h2>


_Antitrust Policy Notice_: Linux Foundation meetings involve participation by industry competitors, and it is the intention of the Linux Foundation to conduct all of its activities in accordance with applicable antitrust and competition laws. It is therefore extremely important that attendees adhere to meeting agendas, and be aware of, and not participate in, any activities that are prohibited under applicable US state, federal or foreign antitrust and competition laws. Examples of types of actions that are prohibited at Linux Foundation meetings and in connection with Linux Foundation activities are described in the Linux Foundation Antitrust Policy available at [http://www.linuxfoundation.org/antitrust-policy](http://www.linuxfoundation.org/antitrust-policy). If you have questions about these matters, please contact your company counsel, or if you are a member of the Linux Foundation, feel free to contact Andrew Updegrove of the firm of Gesmer Updegrove LLP, which provides legal counsel to the Linux Foundation.


For our code of conduct, see: [https://openssf.org/community/code-of-conduct/](https://openssf.org/community/code-of-conduct/)

<h3>Meeting Times</h3>


The EducationT SIG meets weekly on Wednesdays at [9am EST](https://everytimezone.com/convert/eastern_time_mi/9am) on ZOOM!

[https://zoom.us/j/94192055959?pwd=dmtmbDFxaUg1eWVqZDJNUzFnZ0UrUT09](https://zoom.us/j/94192055959?pwd=dmtmbDFxaUg1eWVqZDJNUzFnZ0UrUT09) 

<h3>Meeting Recordings</h3>


[https://www.youtube.com/c/OpenSSF/videos](https://www.youtube.com/c/OpenSSF/videos) 

<h3>SIG Repo</h3>


[https://github.com/ossf/education](https://github.com/ossf/education) 

<h3>Google Doc of draft plan</h3>


[https://docs.google.com/document/d/1DHxj3thd6KJdXaQv8JFKM88-x2qA3dXEfLMPwVDwujQ/xedit](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1DHxj3thd6KJdXaQv8JFKM88-x2qA3dXEfLMPwVDwujQ/edit)

<h4>Sections</h4>


[EDU SIg Group 1 notes](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1bNAUPTTwFbffulI0h5Oiakq7CfP1tuIlmDcjNMG0XR4/edit#)  |  [EDU SIg Group 2 notes ](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1LgpLcgA1Sl2bTMk5BYoeC_tjIopNjH9DvaknwAGT8Io/edit#heading=h.xvq72cw21xb4) | EDU SIG Group 3 Notes

<h3>Jamboard Whiteboard (if needed)</h3>


[https://jamboard.google.com/d/1zzLK6NESL5WaCQGxKvBK6XTcQ-xxrYMVHNgeoBRnv_I/viewer](https://jamboard.google.com/d/1zzLK6NESL5WaCQGxKvBK6XTcQ-xxrYMVHNgeoBRnv_I/viewer) 

<h2>Meetings</h2>




* EDU.SIG and WG calls during US Thanksgiving and End-of-Year Holidays
    * WG call will be held 22Nov, SIG calls on 24 & 25Nov are canceled
    * SIG call canceled 28Dec

<h3>20221214</h3>


<h3>Attendees </h3>


(please **Mark your name is black if you are here,** or add-row name/email/affiliation if joining)


<table>
  <tr>
   <td><strong>Name</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Email</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Affiliation </strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Pronouns</strong>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>CRob
   </td>
   <td>crob@intel.com
   </td>
   <td>Intel
   </td>
   <td>he/him
   </td>
   <td>SecurityCRob
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Emily Fox
   </td>
   <td>themoxiefoxatwork@gmail.com
   </td>
   <td>Apple, CNCF TOC
   </td>
   <td>she/her
   </td>
   <td>TheFoxAtWork
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Randall T. Vasquez
   </td>
   <td>ran.dall@icloud.com
   </td>
   <td>Gentoo/Homebrew
   </td>
   <td>he/him
   </td>
   <td>ran-dall
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Christine Abernathy
   </td>
   <td>c.abernathy@f5.com
   </td>
   <td>F5
   </td>
   <td>she/her
   </td>
   <td>caabernathy
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Jacob Cox
   </td>
   <td>jcox@trideum.com
   </td>
   <td>Trideum
   </td>
   <td>he/him
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Jay White
   </td>
   <td>jaywhite@microsoft.com
   </td>
   <td>Microsoft
   </td>
   <td>He/him
   </td>
   <td>camaleon2016
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Jeff Wayman
   </td>
   <td>jwayman@sonatype.com
   </td>
   <td>Sonatype
   </td>
   <td>he/him
   </td>
   <td>thiswayman
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Max Mizzi
   </td>
   <td>max@majorleaguehacking.com
   </td>
   <td>MLH
   </td>
   <td>he/him
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
</table>


<h3>Agenda</h3>




* Welcome new friends
* Anyone willing to assist in scribing?
* Collect Opens
* Section Updates
* YOU can provide feedback to the plan through Issue [64](https://github.com/ossf/education/issues/64)
* **This is our last call for 2022.  **2023 Meeting notes are moving [here](https://docs.google.com/document/d/18GBwvQJNcPnwxKrnp43DhBZC7K1JM0xzGkDoKh5mu8U/edit#heading=h.9m0zi4b0wnne)
* Update on Plan [Goal 1.6](https://github.com/ossf/education/blob/main/plan/1.0%20Collect%20and%20Curate%20Content.md#16-goal-member-organizations-asked-to-contribute-existing-internal-secdev-training-materials) - Intel oss-appsec team is willing and able to contribute existing internal content to our efforts. 
    * Can we provide them a list of content gaps we have/want/need?  Content will need scrubbed for Intel copyrights/trademarks and then can be donated.
    * In 2023, we can setup a call to hear about what content they may be able to provide
* Spoke with LF Education team yesterday.  They will start to participate and collaborate with us (yay!)
* [Goal 3.13](https://github.com/ossf/education/blob/main/plan/3.0%20Reward%20and%20Incentivize%20Developers%20and%20Maintainers.md#313-partnerships-with-underserved-communities-and-alternate-learning-paths) - Microsoft and F5 thinking about working together on parts of this

<h3>Opens (pending)</h3>




* 

<h5>Section 1 Team Update (Dave R)</h5>




* 

<h5>Section 2 Team Update (Glenn)</h5>




* 

<h5>Section 3 Team Update (Sal)</h5>




* 

<h3>Meeting Notes</h3>




*  
* Issue 64 - please comment or provide PRs to improve the body and intent of the plan. We ask that you consider the plan in its entirety in your review. Any contribution and feedback to improve this is very appreciated. We expect to present the plan to the TAC in January. Likely to be considered towards the end of January.
* New meeting agenda and notes form starting then so keep an eye out.
* Update this week from CRob’s friends at Intel, looking to get member companies to donate material and YAY they will be donating content next year. One requirement, they want us to tell them what content we want because they have a huge library and they need to un-Intel it so us telling them what we’re looking for or what we’re missing would be greatly appreciated (like C programming best practices)
    * Expect a meeting in January to talk through the catalog and talk through how they can assist.
    * Request for help: If your company or organization has content, please reach out and ask if they can contribute or donate it to the foundation, you never know until you ask!
* LF has instructional designers to assist us in the developing course content
* Question on inclusive content: Does the LF Education have  DEI/D&I support us in ensuring the content is presented in a way that assists underrepresented communities in both accessing and understanding this content, particularly as much existing content is very masculine oriented or unfavorable to neurodivergent learners
* Working with underserved communities, while we want to give training, we really need to figure out how to make the learning stick either through opportunities for experiences, we want to provide this and there continues to be a gap in going from providing content to uplifting those communities.  We need more focus here - perhaps we need a special focus on this. We have existing paths of outreach within LF and OpenSSF.
    * We can support this - we can make a sub-group to focus on this in one of the modular areas of the plan.
    * We can create a discussion in the repo for this.
    * CRob can include this in the request when reaching out to LF OpenSSF
* Major League Hacking has a lot of this in place and we can leverage this
* CRob will create a doodle poll to allow folks to meet up on this.
    * Look for messaging before the end of the week
* How do we get the training to those groups? How do we ensure the content is consumable? How do we connect it and make it stick after consumed?
    * This needs stubbed into the plan in all three sections, recommend more ambiguous in execution (outcome oriented) over specificity to gives us the flexibility when we go to implement.

<h3>20221130</h3>


<h3>Attendees </h3>


(please **Mark your name is black if you are here,** or add-row name/email/affiliation if joining)


<table>
  <tr>
   <td><strong>Name</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Email</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Affiliation </strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Pronouns</strong>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Dave Russo
   </td>
   <td>drusso@redhat.com
   </td>
   <td>Red Hat
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>drusso-rh
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>CRob
   </td>
   <td>crob@intel.com
   </td>
   <td>Intel
   </td>
   <td>he/him
   </td>
   <td>SecurityCRob
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Sal Kimmich
   </td>
   <td>skimmich@sonatype.com
   </td>
   <td>Sonatype
   </td>
   <td>they/them
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Avishay Balter
   </td>
   <td>avbalter@microsoft.com
   </td>
   <td>Microsoft
   </td>
   <td>he/him
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Randall T. Vasquez
   </td>
   <td>ran.dall@icloud.com
   </td>
   <td>Gentoo/Homebrew
   </td>
   <td>he/him
   </td>
   <td>ran-dall
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Christine Abernathy
   </td>
   <td>c.abernathy@f5.com
   </td>
   <td>F5
   </td>
   <td>she/her
   </td>
   <td>caabernathy
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Antony Faris
   </td>
   <td>acp325@gmail.com
   </td>
   <td>MTHRSHP
   </td>
   <td>he/him
   </td>
   <td>antonyfaris
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Max Mizzi
   </td>
   <td>max@mlh.io
   </td>
   <td>MLH
   </td>
   <td>he/him
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
</table>


<h3>Agenda</h3>




* Welcome new friends
* Anyone willing to assist in scribing?
* Collect Opens
* Section Updates
* **We’d like to have plan revisions completed by 01Dec2022 **
    * For the TAC we will leave the sections in git as-is, a document will be created for the OSSF GB when the time comes.
    * On Dec 09 everyone will be notified with a 2 week call for comments, this will be presented to TAC in Jan and go to the GB in Jan/Feb
    * We should mark things in flight as ACTIVE
* SIG/WG Business
    * DECISION NEEDED - Adopt SIG Charter - [https://github.com/ossf/education/blob/main/CHARTER.md](https://github.com/ossf/education/blob/main/CHARTER.md) 
    * **@All** - Read and vote in the issue once it is created - watch for CRob’s e-mail

<h3>Opens (pending)</h3>




* Demo new SKF (Antony/Randall)

<h5>Section 1 Team Update (Dave R)</h5>




* [Agenda & Notes](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1bNAUPTTwFbffulI0h5Oiakq7CfP1tuIlmDcjNMG0XR4/edit?usp=sharing)
* Please continue entering information into the Materials Matrix [spreadsheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/14g7jdt-e-AV1aeFFDKpPkyUh3ljPhC2kalaojMurqBU/edit#gid=0) 
* The final draft of the plan is due tomorrow!
* 08 Dec is the last scheduled call for the year.

<h5>Section 2 Team Update (Glenn)</h5>




* Two items remain to be decided, currently in section 2 PR (year 2 items)

<h5>Section 3 Team Update (Sal)</h5>




* Year 1 looks solid, year 2 might need adjusted, but that can be done as we progress
* A few explanations needs completed, that should be done in the next few days

<h3>Meeting Notes</h3>




* SKF demo

<h3>20221116</h3>


<h3>Attendees </h3>


(please **Mark your name is black if you are here,** or add-row name/email/affiliation if joining)


<table>
  <tr>
   <td><strong>Name</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Email</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Affiliation </strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Pronouns</strong>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Dave Russo
   </td>
   <td>drusso@redhat.com
   </td>
   <td>Red Hat
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>drusso-rh
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Glenn ten Cate
   </td>
   <td>glenntencate@gmail.com
   </td>
   <td>SKF
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>blabla1337
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>CRob
   </td>
   <td>crob@intel.com
   </td>
   <td>Intel
   </td>
   <td>he/him
   </td>
   <td>SecurityCRob
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Emily Fox
   </td>
   <td>themoxiefoxatwork@gmail.com
   </td>
   <td>Apple, CNCF TOC
   </td>
   <td>she/her
   </td>
   <td>TheFoxAtWork
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Avishay Balter
   </td>
   <td>avbalter@microsoft.com
   </td>
   <td>Microsoft
   </td>
   <td>he/him
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Randall T. Vasquez
   </td>
   <td>ran.dall@icloud.com
   </td>
   <td>Gentoo/Homebrew
   </td>
   <td>he/him
   </td>
   <td>ran-dall
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Christine Abernathy
   </td>
   <td>c.abernathy@f5.com
   </td>
   <td>F5
   </td>
   <td>she/her
   </td>
   <td>caabernathy
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Daniel Appelquist
   </td>
   <td>daniel.appelquist@snyk.io
   </td>
   <td>Snyk
   </td>
   <td>he/him
   </td>
   <td>Torgo
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td><strong>Brian Fox</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>brianf@sonatype.com</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Sonatype, OSSF GB</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>he/him</strong>
   </td>
   <td>Do you
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Michael Biocchi
   </td>
   <td>michael.biocchi@snyk.io
   </td>
   <td>Snyk
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Antony Faris
   </td>
   <td>acp325@gmail.com
   </td>
   <td>MTHRSHP
   </td>
   <td>he/him
   </td>
   <td>antonyfaris
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Jeff Wayman
   </td>
   <td>jwayman@sonatype.com
   </td>
   <td>Sonatype
   </td>
   <td>he/him
   </td>
   <td>thiswayman
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Dan Conn
   </td>
   <td>dconn@sonatype.com
   </td>
   <td>Sonatype
   </td>
   <td>he/him
   </td>
   <td>danjconn
   </td>
  </tr>
</table>


<h3>Agenda</h3>




* Welcome new friends
* Anyone willing to assist in scribing?
* Collect Opens
* Section Updates
* **We’d like to have plan revisions completed by 01Dec2022 **
* SIG/WG Business
* 

<h3>Opens (pending)</h3>




* [Avishay] Glossary content and style guide
    * What is the best way to ask more content to the glossary?
    * Are we ready to open this up to the larger Foundation? Not yet, we’d like to polish it a bit more
    * **@Randall** to spin up a glossary-specific call, start the conversation in Slack
    * [Emily] Where is the resource list where we are pulling this from? A variety of sources - Issue 11 in the repo has a list - added a glossary source on the issue
* [DR] What is the plan for the sections after the revised EDU plan is finalized and presented to the TAC? Will we continue to execute on milestones individually?
    * SKF efforts will continue for the non-funded goals so it is ready if/when we get the go ahead
    * Call the early work “recommended spikes” that allows us to keep moving on some tasks - this signals the TAC what we are doing in case they have opinions on it
    * Keep meetings in place for now, extend through first quarter; cancel section calls as needed; continue using slack 
* [CRob] OSSF GB / TAC call - some strategy discussions took place; education was one of the highlights so the GB is very interested in this topic
* [CRob] Show idea to present resource requests (OSS-SIRT Sec1 [plan](https://github.com/ossf/SIRT/blob/CRob-updates/plan/1.0%20Understand%20the%20problem%20space.md))([new link](https://github.com/ossf/SIRT/blob/main/plan/1.0%20Understand%20the%20Problem%20Space.md)) - Should we use a similar time and resource table in each section? YES
* [GTC] Plan a date for a final review with interesting parties?
    * No meeting yet, CRob has provided a sneak peek; after the SIG review the BPWG would be a good place to start - possibly December 9 for an open review?
* [MM] Dive into target audiences and channels for training
    * See [Objective 1.3](https://github.com/ossf/education/blob/main/plan/1.0%20Collect%20and%20Curate%20Content.md#13-goal-determine-venues-and-personas-that-content-will-be-created-fordelivered-to) for the initial thoughts of how we’d like to approach this
    * Two main channels to start with are David Wheeler’s class and SKF, we are looking at conferences, podcasts, etc. as another channel
    * We need to demonstrate impact and value, which requires working with devs and maintainers (can be coordinated like a hack-a-thon by Major League Hacking); use a badge to indicate verification (Section 3 of the plan)
    * [MM] Training 1500 open source developers that could be a starting pool for this
    * [CRob] Any interest in “Ask us anything” or office hours sessions?
        * [Glenn] This is included in the Section 2 goals, in addition to having public meetings
    * [Randall] Created an ASVS diagram to show the DB; expecting David’s input
        * Create an architecture folder in the repo so we have this information
        * This info will be required to justify the funding we are asking for

<h5>Section 1 Team Update (Dave R)</h5>




* [Agenda & Notes](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1bNAUPTTwFbffulI0h5Oiakq7CfP1tuIlmDcjNMG0XR4/edit?usp=sharing)
* Please continue entering information into the Materials Matrix [spreadsheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/14g7jdt-e-AV1aeFFDKpPkyUh3ljPhC2kalaojMurqBU/edit#gid=0) 
* Any additional contributions to the Section 1 plan should be submitted as a PR no later than 23 Nov - after that DR and CRob will fill in the remaining blanks and begin combining this Section with Sections 2 & 3.
* Issue 4 closed - call to start with OS Glossary Y1, and localizing translators Y2

<h5>Section 2 Team Update (Glenn)</h5>




* 90% done with the Section 2
* This week we will put in the ‘Final’ version that is ready for the review that starts at 23 Nov

<h5>Section 3 Team Update (Sal)</h5>




* This section is in strong need of support - I’ll be on this full time Thursday/Friday Nov 17/18 and would love a dedicated/on tap conversation on slack for that period while we get this set 
* Just added [google docs](https://docs.google.com/document/d/16iHk_jFMoXgxNoYVAQIOp2RTno3i5ke3Ezh1Nkr7tVM/edit?usp=sharing) for any easy comments/concerns

<h3>Meeting Notes</h3>




* Sec1 update 
    * please continue to put more info into xls to help id items for our education efforts
    * We will begin finalizing things over the next week.
* Sec2 Updates
    * Working to fill in content and goals (about 90% done)
    * Should be able to put it to rest for review
* Sec3 Updates
    * Will be focusing this week on plan
    * Hard to define levels to coordinate across personas
    * By end of tomorrow will have basic matrix for appsec to show what corresponds and what does not
    * Check out the slack channel for requests for eyes on/feedback against matrix
    * 

<h3>20221102</h3>


<h3>Attendees </h3>


(please **Mark your name is black if you are here,** or add-row name/email/affiliation if joining)


<table>
  <tr>
   <td><strong>Name</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Email</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Affiliation </strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Pronouns</strong>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>David A. Wheeler
   </td>
   <td>dwheeler@linuxfoundation.org
   </td>
   <td>Linux Foundation
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Glenn ten Cate
   </td>
   <td>glenntencate@gmail.com
   </td>
   <td>SKF
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>blabla1337
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>CRob
   </td>
   <td>crob@intel.com
   </td>
   <td>Intel
   </td>
   <td>he/him
   </td>
   <td>SecurityCRob
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Sal Kimmich
   </td>
   <td>skimmich@sonatype.com
   </td>
   <td>Sonatype
   </td>
   <td>they/them
   </td>
   <td>salkimmich
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Avishay Balter
   </td>
   <td>avbalter@microsoft.com
   </td>
   <td>Microsoft
   </td>
   <td>he/him
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Judy Kelly
   </td>
   <td>jkelly@redhat.com
   </td>
   <td>Red Hat
   </td>
   <td>she/her
   </td>
   <td>judyobrienie
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Randall T. Vasquez
   </td>
   <td>ran.dall@icloud.com
   </td>
   <td>Gentoo/Homebrew
   </td>
   <td>he/him
   </td>
   <td>ran-dall
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Christine Abernathy
   </td>
   <td>c.abernathy@f5.com
   </td>
   <td>F5
   </td>
   <td>she/her
   </td>
   <td>caabernathy
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Daniel Appelquist
   </td>
   <td>daniel.appelquist@snyk.io
   </td>
   <td>Snyk
   </td>
   <td>he/him
   </td>
   <td>Torgo
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Jeff Wayman
   </td>
   <td>jwayman@sonatype.com
   </td>
   <td>Sonatype
   </td>
   <td>he/him
   </td>
   <td>thiswayman
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Dan Conn
   </td>
   <td>dconn@sonatype.com
   </td>
   <td>Sonatype
   </td>
   <td>he/him
   </td>
   <td>danjconn
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Antony Faris
   </td>
   <td>acp325@gmail.com
   </td>
   <td>MTHRSHP
   </td>
   <td>he/him
   </td>
   <td>antonyfaris
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Max Mizzi
   </td>
   <td>max@mlh.io
   </td>
   <td>Major League Hacking (MLH)
   </td>
   <td>he/him
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
</table>


<h3>Agenda</h3>




* Welcome new friends
* Anyone willing to assist in scribing?
* Collect Opens
* Section Updates
* **We’d like to have plan revisions completed by 01Dec2022 **
* SIG/WG Business
* Review personas we will be using:

<table>
  <tr>
   <td>
<strong>Learner Personas</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Professional Personas</strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Compliance
   </td>
   <td>Application Security
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Contributor/Maintainer training (how to do a pr, maintenance)
   </td>
   <td>Secure Supply Chain
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Higher Ed
   </td>
   <td>Data Security
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Job change training (new to the career path)
   </td>
   <td>Cloud Security
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Managers of software developers
   </td>
   <td>Network Security
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Primary/secondary Pre-career education
   </td>
   <td>Endpoint/Mobile Security
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Trade school/boot camp/professional
   </td>
   <td>Advanced Detection and Response
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Trainers ( Aka Train the trainers )
   </td>
   <td>Identity and Access Management
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>Cyber Incident Response
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>Other Security Persona
   </td>
  </tr>
</table>




* Provide feedback on Matrix and begin populating - [https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/14g7jdt-e-AV1aeFFDKpPkyUh3ljPhC2kalaojMurqBU/edit#gid=0](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/14g7jdt-e-AV1aeFFDKpPkyUh3ljPhC2kalaojMurqBU/edit#gid=0) 

<h3>Opens (pending)</h3>




* Review of stream 2 Goals as it could belong better at one of the other streams
    * [https://github.com/ossf/education/blob/main/plan/2.0%20Expand%20Training.md](https://github.com/ossf/education/blob/main/plan/2.0%20Expand%20Training.md) 
* Lexicon feedback
    * [https://github.com/ossf/education/pull/28](https://github.com/ossf/education/pull/28) 

<h5>Section 1 Team Update (Dave R)</h5>




* Busy with the Matrix and also wanted to discuss the ‘learner personas’ 

<h5>Section 2 Team Update (Glenn)</h5>




* Defined the Operations scope and services
* Adding estimations and working out the Goal items
    * Some we need to review and possibly move to the other streams 

<h5>Section 3 Team Update (Sal)</h5>




* There will be a meeting soon to look at the LF certifications and connect the people and pieces together.
* Looking also to see what platforms can host and have a ‘Badge’ system

<h3>Meeting Notes</h3>




* Stream 2 items could be moved to Stream 1
    * 2.5 Goal: Member organizations asked to contribute existing internal secdev training materials
* Stream 2 Cap scope and limit to David Wheeler Course, ASVS, WSTG
    * Other courses move to year 2 section, we address the new materials that are curated from Stream 1
* Stream 2 Also has the scope of creating content and materials for gaps or new concepts.

<h3>20221019</h3>


<h3>Attendees </h3>


(please **Mark your name is black if you are here,** or add-row name/email/affiliation if joining)


<table>
  <tr>
   <td><strong>Name</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Email</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Affiliation </strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Pronouns</strong>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Dave Russo
   </td>
   <td>drusso@redhat.com
   </td>
   <td>Red Hat
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>drusso-rh
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Glenn ten Cate
   </td>
   <td>glenntencate@gmail.com
   </td>
   <td>SKF
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>blabla1337
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>CRob
   </td>
   <td>crob@intel.com
   </td>
   <td>Intel
   </td>
   <td>he/him
   </td>
   <td>SecurityCRob
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Emily Fox
   </td>
   <td>themoxiefoxatwork@gmail.com
   </td>
   <td>Apple, CNCF TOC
   </td>
   <td>she/her
   </td>
   <td>TheFoxAtWork
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Sal Kimmich
   </td>
   <td>skimmich@sonatype.com
   </td>
   <td>Sonatype
   </td>
   <td>they/them
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Randall T. Vasquez
   </td>
   <td>ran.dall@icloud.com
   </td>
   <td>Gentoo/Homebrew
   </td>
   <td>he/him
   </td>
   <td>ran-dall
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Christine Abernathy
   </td>
   <td>c.abernathy@f5.com
   </td>
   <td>F5
   </td>
   <td>she/her
   </td>
   <td>caabernathy
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Daniel Appelquist
   </td>
   <td>daniel.appelquist@snyk.io
   </td>
   <td>Snyk
   </td>
   <td>he/him
   </td>
   <td>Torgo
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Michael Biocchi
   </td>
   <td>michael.biocchi@snyk.io
   </td>
   <td>Snyk
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Jeff Wayman
   </td>
   <td>jwayman@sonatype.com
   </td>
   <td>Sonatype
   </td>
   <td>he/him
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
</table>


<h3>Agenda</h3>




* Welcome new friends
* Anyone willing to assist in scribing?
* Collect Opens
* Section Updates
* **We’d like to have plan revisions completed by 01Dec2022 **
* SIG/WG Business
* [DaveR] Materials Matrix working meeting
* Personas for our group

<h3>Opens (pending)</h3>




* Section 1 Action Items:
    * Meeting this week to finalize gaps analysis spreadsheet
        * Aim of Analysis: We are defining a gaps analysis to identify a matrix of all known professional personas, and the training repositories we currently have to support those. 
        * This must be queryable by skillset, language, professional persona and audience type.
        * The best outcome of this spreadsheet is a matrix that makes visible what is clearly MISSING in the gap between what we have and what we need to teach to ensure new entries into the employable cybersecurity market.
    * Refining milestones, objectives and budget to consolidate dependencies for year one 
* Section 2 Action Items: 
    * Stream[ 1.2 ](https://github.com/ossf/education/blob/SecurityCRob-patch-1/plan/1.0%20Collect%20and%20Curate%20Content.md#12-goal-create-an-open-educational-resource-oer-library-of-secure-development-education-materials)proposed to move to stream 2 to develop platform and storage for education and computational training platform 
        * **@DR** adjust 1.2 to say we will centralize materials on SKF (refer to Glenn’s Goal), leave the budget for tooling, leave budget for librarian role
        * **@Randall** to put together services proposal to drive the budget
    * Confirm
* Section 3 Action Items: 
    * Develop rewards and incentives for AppSec personal learning pathway, template rewards process for other personas 

	

<h5>Section 1 Team Update (Dave R)</h5>




* [Agenda & Notes](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1bNAUPTTwFbffulI0h5Oiakq7CfP1tuIlmDcjNMG0XR4/edit?usp=sharing)
* Finalizing the Materials Matrix [spreadsheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/14g7jdt-e-AV1aeFFDKpPkyUh3ljPhC2kalaojMurqBU/edit#gid=0) this week - working meeting tomorrow @ 9:00am EDT
* Refining the dependencies, milestones, high-level timeline and budget items of the Section 1 plan, aiming to be complete by the end of Nov

<h5>Section 2 Team Update (Glenn)</h5>




* Scope defined for first MVP Year 1 content + labs
    * ASVS -> secure developer profile
    * WSTG -> Security tester profile
* Discussion about the Goals and milestones

<h5>Section 3 Team Update (Sal)</h5>




* 

<h3>Meeting Notes</h3>




* 

<h3>20221005</h3>


<h3>Attendees </h3>


(please **Mark your name is black if you are here,** or add-row name/email/affiliation if joining)


<table>
  <tr>
   <td><strong>Name</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Email</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Affiliation </strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Pronouns</strong>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Dave Russo
   </td>
   <td>drusso@redhat.com
   </td>
   <td>Red Hat
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>drusso-rh
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>CRob
   </td>
   <td>crob@intel.com
   </td>
   <td>Intel
   </td>
   <td>he/him
   </td>
   <td>SecurityCRob
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Eric Tice
   </td>
   <td>eric.tice@wipro.com
   </td>
   <td>Wipro
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>erictice
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Randall T. Vasquez
   </td>
   <td>ran.dall@icloud.com
   </td>
   <td>Gentoo/Homebrew
   </td>
   <td>he/him
   </td>
   <td>ran-dall
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Christine Abernathy
   </td>
   <td>c.abernathy@f5.com
   </td>
   <td>F5
   </td>
   <td>she/her
   </td>
   <td>caabernathy
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Dan Appelquist
   </td>
   <td>daniel.appelquist@snyk.io
   </td>
   <td>Snyk
   </td>
   <td>he/him
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Kara Olive
   </td>
   <td>olivekl@google.com
   </td>
   <td>Google
   </td>
   <td>she/her
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Michael Biocchi
   </td>
   <td>michael.biocchi@snyk.io
   </td>
   <td>Snyk
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Jacob Cox
   </td>
   <td>jcox@trideum.com
   </td>
   <td>Trideum
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Arnaud Le Hors
   </td>
   <td>lehors@us.ibm.com
   </td>
   <td>IBM
   </td>
   <td>he/him
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
</table>


<h3>Agenda</h3>




* Welcome new friends
* Anyone willing to assist in scribing?
* Collect Opens
* SIG/WG Business
*  Updates on [Glossary ](https://github.com/ossf/education/pull/22)(What are we gonna call this thing anyway?) -PR22
    * CRob update from TAC convo on cross-foundation things - TAC agreed things like this (glossary / personas) should live in a central repository
    * Dan & Mike from Snyk are interested in participating / contributing
    * These conversations are happening in slack, will move to a public channel
        * **@CRob** to send e-mail to Jory about possibly getting a dedicated slack channel for this
    * **@Randall** to send e-mail to WG and SIG for additional participation
    * We will need to loop in the other WG to contribute to this as well
    * No timeline expectation as of now - [Randall] first draft being targeted for 2 weeks-ish
* **We’d like to have plan revisions completed by 01Dec2022 **
    * Need goals, milestones, funding needs and rough timelines
    * Make assumptions, keep commitments generic as possible since there is info and dependencies that will not be complete by December
* Thoughts, comments, suggestions on “Existing Educational Materials for Developing More Secure Software - [THE SPREADSHEET](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/14g7jdt-e-AV1aeFFDKpPkyUh3ljPhC2kalaojMurqBU/edit#gid=0)” so we can start to populate it
    * **@All** - need feedback on ‘Matrix’ and ‘xRef’ tabs - DUE BEFORE OCT 13
* **@DaveR** - Do we need to add a Section 1 goal around creating a curriculum framework?
* As part of the personas, we should state what we would expect a persona to know going in (“What would a university student know?”)

<h3>Opens (pending)</h3>




* 

<h5>Section 1 Team Update (Dave R)</h5>




* [Agenda & Notes](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1bNAUPTTwFbffulI0h5Oiakq7CfP1tuIlmDcjNMG0XR4/edit?usp=sharing)
* Dug into Goal 1.1 - Review existing educational materials for gaps and opportunities
    * Added dependencies and additional milestones
    * Collecting existing materials in this [doc](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1BHJ1EMtP_3mVqW6e97qRcwwWkP6b3o8R47KJ0gxJuHo/edit#heading=h.jwsf7ry1xgui)
    * Using this [spreadsheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/14g7jdt-e-AV1aeFFDKpPkyUh3ljPhC2kalaojMurqBU/edit#gid=0) to organize the materials and help determine what we do or don’t have
    * The info will be used to conduct a survey to help gauge areas we might want to focus on for additional training
* Support for Dec 1 deadline – should be possible

<h5>Section 2 Team Update (Glenn)</h5>




* SKF v2
    * Backend Overhaul in Knative – five potential developers to volunteer
    * Front End Redesign – four potential volunteers 
* Clarify expectations and goals – looking for guiding principle in redesign 
* Question: can rewrite of mobilization plan be finished by December 1? – should be possible
* This team is dependent on materials from Team 1; will be estimating until those materials are finalized; milestone definition might built in “unknown” space 

<h5>Section 3 Team Update (Sal)</h5>




* Team 3 update TBA

<h3>Meeting Notes</h3>




* Glossary update: [PR 22](https://github.com/ossf/education/pull/22) created and available for review; please take a look
    * Question: how can the community best engage in this project?
        * From now, contribute and collaborate through PR 22 
        * Let’s organize in public channels, send a note to mailing list to call for participation
    * TAC confirms that Foundation-wide glossary and list of personas impact multiple groups and should be in its own project repo; this work will get moved into a dedicated, top-level repo 
    * Timeframe for completion? Currently unknown, aiming for 2-ish weeks
    * Need to decide on a name (Glossary, Lexicon, Taxonomy, etc…)
    * Should the terms be split up into folders?
        * Probably not: would affect search-ability, result in duplications
        * Use tags for now
        * More important is the content; one markdown file would be easily parsable by scripts going forward
        * Avoid introducing situations where we’ll create rework
        * Need to set up subcommittee to work on deciding how to structure/organize
            * Send note to mailing list about need for name
    * Reminder: wherever possible, we should NOT be creating the definitions for these terms; take from good existing definitions to avoid creating new work
* [Spreadsheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/14g7jdt-e-AV1aeFFDKpPkyUh3ljPhC2kalaojMurqBU/edit#gid=0) – would like everyone’s feedback on the Matrix tab and the xRef tab
    * Think about and weigh in on what type of information you’d like to see, how to organize it (in xRef tab) 
        * Please comment on anything you think is duplicative or needs to be defined or normalized 
        * Next section meeting is Thurs, Oct 13, so please make comments or give feedback before then 
    * Intent: get inventory of what’s available, evaluate what we can do with it, and identify gaps require that we create or rewrite materials. Will be used for decision making. 
    * Question: will this spreadsheet be tracking by course, which might not capture all the overlapping topics? –for now, yes unless there’s a better way?
    * Use category items from ASVS as a guide so as not to reinvent the wheel?
        * Add ASVS categories in column or add a comment suggestion
    * Criteria for what resources should be included?
        * Not defined yet, just casting a wide net 
        * Orgs could potentially donate materials and we can figure out later the licensing or how to use it 
    * Do we need a curriculum to address before we start trying to mobilize the content?
        * Discuss in a sub-working group?
    * Have we defined learning goals? 
        * Not yet – add as an explicit item to Team 1?
        * Have we defined learner audiences?
            * Yes, in xRef tab
            * Would be good to lay out what we expect they know/starting point for each

<h3>20220921</h3>


<h3>Attendees </h3>


(please **Mark your name is black if you are here,** or add-row name/email/affiliation if joining)


<table>
  <tr>
   <td><strong>Name</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Email</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Affiliation </strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Pronouns</strong>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Dave Russo
   </td>
   <td>drusso@redhat.com
   </td>
   <td>Red Hat
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>drusso-rh
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Glenn ten Cate
   </td>
   <td>glenntencate@gmail.com
   </td>
   <td>SKF
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>blabla1337
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>VM (Vicky) Brasseur
   </td>
   <td>vm.brasseur@wipro.com
   </td>
   <td>Wipro
   </td>
   <td>she/her
   </td>
   <td>vmbrasseur
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>CRob
   </td>
   <td>crob@intel.com
   </td>
   <td>Intel
   </td>
   <td>he/him
   </td>
   <td>SecurityCRob
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Avishay Balter
   </td>
   <td>avbalter@microsoft.com
   </td>
   <td>Microsoft
   </td>
   <td>he/him
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Randall T. Vasquez
   </td>
   <td>ran.dall@icloud.com
   </td>
   <td>Gentoo/Homebrew
   </td>
   <td>he/him
   </td>
   <td>ran-dall
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Tom Ritter
   </td>
   <td>tom.ritter@digitalimpactnow.com
   </td>
   <td>DIN
   </td>
   <td>he/him
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Kara Olive
   </td>
   <td>olivekl@google.com
   </td>
   <td>Google
   </td>
   <td>she/her
   </td>
   <td>olivekl
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Jeff Wayman
   </td>
   <td>jwayman@sonatype.com
   </td>
   <td>Sonatype
   </td>
   <td>he/him
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
</table>


<h3>Agenda</h3>




* Welcome new friends
    * Jeff Wayman - Sonatype
* Anyone willing to assist in scribing?
* Collect Opens
* SIG/WG Business
    * Next Full SIG call we’ll have Section teams do brief read-out of activities 
    * CRob met the LF’s instructional designer (Kassidy) at OSS-EU and she wants to help!
        * We should loop in her and others from the LF as we build our plans
    * CRob is talking to a professor at Baldwin Wallace University who specializes in cyber security and he and his team are reviewing the plan and will give comments
    * Review [README.MD](https://github.com/ossf/education) Objectives and what is in/out of scope
        * Agreed on Objectives as currently defined
        * In Scope
            * Add “Improve existing security education and OSS project security with our educational materials”
        * Out of Scope
            * Add “Providing personal guidance or feedback to individuals or groups using the educational materials”
            * Add “Assisting with technical issues related to the educational materials”
    * Discuss Issue[ #11](https://github.com/ossf/education/issues/11) - terminology/definitions
        * Organize into columns with definitions from multiple known sources, then compare them and decide what to use
        * Incorporate the definition content into communication platforms to easily share and socialize it
        * Add developer-centric terms to the list (currently vulnerability-centric)
        * SKF Knowledge Base [link](https://github.com/blabla1337/skf-flask/tree/main/skf/markdown/knowledge_base/web) - this can be extended
        * **@Randall** and **@Avishay** will begin gathering this information and note the source
            * I (**@Jeff Wayman**) happy to help with this effort - even if it’s just editing).
        * ISO definitions should be accessible from here - [link](https://www.iso.org/obp/ui/#search)
        * Preference of definitions? Do we have a preferred source? 
            * TBD - we should likely use a neutral organization

<h3>Opens (pending)</h3>




* 

<h5>Section 1 Team Update (Dave R)</h5>




* No meeting on 09/15
* [Agenda & Notes](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1bNAUPTTwFbffulI0h5Oiakq7CfP1tuIlmDcjNMG0XR4/edit?usp=sharing)
* Reviewed all the goals to ensure they belonged in this section’s scope, shuffled a few around and updated the plan
* Gathering educational materials in this [doc](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1BHJ1EMtP_3mVqW6e97qRcwwWkP6b3o8R47KJ0gxJuHo/edit#heading=h.jwsf7ry1xgui) (to implement Goal 1.1)

<h5>Section 2 Team Update (Glenn)</h5>




* Discussion on how to move forward in fixing and educating core sources for example StackOverflow
* Discussion on what languages and stacks are in scope

<h5>Section 3 Team Update (Sal)</h5>




* 

<h3>Meeting Notes</h3>




*  

<h3>20220914</h3>


No Full-SIG call today - enjoy yourselves!

<h3>20220907</h3>


<h3>Attendees </h3>


(please **Mark your name is black if you are here,** or add-row name/email/affiliation if joining)


<table>
  <tr>
   <td><strong>Name</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Email</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Affiliation </strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Pronouns</strong>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Dave Russo
   </td>
   <td>drusso@redhat.com
   </td>
   <td>Red Hat
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>drusso-rh
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>David A. Wheeler
   </td>
   <td>dwheeler@linuxfoundation.org
   </td>
   <td>Linux Foundation
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Glenn ten Cate
   </td>
   <td>glenntencate@gmail.com
   </td>
   <td>SKF
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>blabla1337
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>VM (Vicky) Brasseur
   </td>
   <td>vm.brasseur@wipro.com
   </td>
   <td>Wipro
   </td>
   <td>she/her
   </td>
   <td>vmbrasseur
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>CRob
   </td>
   <td>crob@intel.com
   </td>
   <td>Intel
   </td>
   <td>he/him
   </td>
   <td>SecurityCRob
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Avishay Balter
   </td>
   <td>avbalter@microsoft.com
   </td>
   <td>Microsoft
   </td>
   <td>he/him
   </td>
   <td>balteravishay
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Eric Tice
   </td>
   <td>eric.tice@wipro.com
   </td>
   <td>Wipro
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>erictice
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Judy Kelly
   </td>
   <td>jkelly@redhat.com
   </td>
   <td>Red Hat
   </td>
   <td>she/her
   </td>
   <td>judyobrienie
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Randall T. Vasquez
   </td>
   <td>ran.dall@icloud.com
   </td>
   <td>Gentoo/Homebrew
   </td>
   <td>he/him
   </td>
   <td>ran-dall
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Jacob Cox
   </td>
   <td>jcox@trideum.com
   </td>
   <td>Trideum
   </td>
   <td>he/him
   </td>
   <td>coxjacob
   </td>
  </tr>
</table>


<h3>Agenda</h3>




* Welcome new friends
* Anyone willing to assist in scribing?
* Collect Opens
* Reminder about sub-group focus calls:
    * [drusso] **_OSSF EDU SIG Collect & Curate Content_** subgroup meeting Doodle result: **_Thursday 9:00am Eastern_**, starting **_Thursday Sept 1, recurring every 2 weeks_**
    * [Glenn] Expand Training - **4:30pm EST alternating Thursdays **
    * [Sal] - Reward and Incentivize Developers and Maintainers - 12pm EST every other week
* SIG/WG Business - [https://github.com/ossf/education](https://github.com/ossf/education) 
    * Review readme.md for group & make changes
        * Wordsmith the top blurb to be more easily understood
        * Motivation: Change coding to software development
        * Objective: Keep materials open and freely available; remove cost from this conversation; mention accessibility and types of learners
        * Scope: Reference the individual section plans for what is in scope?; 
    * review/revise mission & goals for team
*  

<h3>Opens (pending)</h3>




* Movement of some SIG items to other streams

<h5>Section 1 Team Update</h5>




* [Agenda & Notes](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1bNAUPTTwFbffulI0h5Oiakq7CfP1tuIlmDcjNMG0XR4/edit?usp=sharing)
* Reviewed all the goals to ensure they belonged in this section’s scope, shuffled a few around and updated the plan
* Gathering educational materials in this [doc](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1BHJ1EMtP_3mVqW6e97qRcwwWkP6b3o8R47KJ0gxJuHo/edit#heading=h.jwsf7ry1xgui) (to implement Goal 1.1)

<h5>Section 2 Team Update</h5>




* 

<h5>Section 3 Team Update</h5>




* 

<h3>Meeting Notes</h3>




* 

<h3>20220831</h3>


<h3>Attendees </h3>


(please **Mark your name is black if you are here,** or add-row name/email/affiliation if joining)


<table>
  <tr>
   <td><strong>Name</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Email</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Affiliation </strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Pronouns</strong>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Dave Russo
   </td>
   <td>drusso@redhat.com
   </td>
   <td>Red Hat
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>drusso-rh
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>David A. Wheeler
   </td>
   <td>dwheeler@linuxfoundation.org
   </td>
   <td>Linux Foundation
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Glenn ten Cate
   </td>
   <td>glenntencate@gmail.com
   </td>
   <td>SKF
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>blabla1337
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>VM (Vicky) Brasseur
   </td>
   <td>vm.brasseur@wipro.com
   </td>
   <td>Wipro
   </td>
   <td>she/her
   </td>
   <td>vmbrasseur
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>CRob
   </td>
   <td>crob@intel.com
   </td>
   <td>Intel
   </td>
   <td>he/him
   </td>
   <td>SecurityCRob
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Avishay Balter
   </td>
   <td>avbalter@microsoft.com
   </td>
   <td>Microsoft
   </td>
   <td>he/him
   </td>
   <td>balteravishay
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Eric Tice
   </td>
   <td>eric.tice@wipro.com
   </td>
   <td>Wipro
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>erictice
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Randall T. Vasquez
   </td>
   <td>ran.dall@icloud.com
   </td>
   <td>Gentoo/Homebrew
   </td>
   <td>he/him
   </td>
   <td>ran-dall
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Judy Kelly
   </td>
   <td>jkelly@redhat.com
   </td>
   <td>Red Hat
   </td>
   <td>she/her
   </td>
   <td>judyobrienie
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Emily Fox
   </td>
   <td>themoxiefoxatwork@gmail.com
   </td>
   <td>Apple, CNCF TOC
   </td>
   <td>she/her
   </td>
   <td>TheFoxAtWork
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Jacob Cox
   </td>
   <td>jcox@trideum.com
   </td>
   <td>Trideum
   </td>
   <td>he/him
   </td>
   <td>coxjacob
   </td>
  </tr>
</table>


<h3>Agenda</h3>




* Welcome new friends
* Anyone willing to assist in scribing?
* Collect Opens
* SIG/WG Business - We’ll officially throttle back to every other week.  **Next full SIG call will be Sept 7 9am EST and be every other week going forward**
*  Section Meeting Times
    * 1 - **_Collect & Curate Content_** - **_Thursday 9:00am Eastern_**, starting **_Thursday Sept 1, recurring every 2 weeks_** 
    * 2  -**_ Expand Training -_** 4**:30pm EST alternating Thursdays starting Sept 1 recurring**
    * 
    * 3 - **_Reward and Incentivize Developers _**- TBD
* 

<h3>Opens (pending)</h3>




* [CRob] Issue 11 proposed by Vuln Disclosure group for this team to take ownership of (Dictionary of terms for the whole Foundation):
    * [https://github.com/ossf/education/issues/11](https://github.com/ossf/education/issues/11) 
    * [CVD Guide for Finders glossary](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1u3NqbFr0o7PkWeyjIvWB-M16S4E1ZQSbMRTHiMzbVUA/edit#)
    * Existing info (that we know of): 
        * [https://github.com/cncf/tag-security/blob/main/security-lexicon/cloud-native-security-lexicon.md](https://github.com/cncf/tag-security/blob/main/security-lexicon/cloud-native-security-lexicon.md)
        * [https://glossary.cncf.io/](https://glossary.cncf.io/) 
        * [https://niccs.cisa.gov/cybersecurity-career-resources/glossary](https://niccs.cisa.gov/cybersecurity-career-resources/glossary) 
        * [https://csrc.nist.gov/glossary/term/taxonomy](https://csrc.nist.gov/glossary/term/taxonomy) 
    * This will require participation and contributions for all of the OSSF groups; we should open source existing definitions from other places and cite them
    * There may also be occasion to provide additional details as it pertains specifically to open source or supply chains
    * **DECISION:** 12 votes to take it on
        * **@CRob** will put something in the git repo and talk with the TAC
    * Will this document be required to go through TAC approval?
        * No, we will get initial approval to work on it, after that we can manage it as we see fit; any funding does need to go through the TAC process
        * FYI - how the TAC will operate: [https://github.com/ossf/tac/pull/112](https://github.com/ossf/tac/pull/112) 
* No SIG meetings on Sept 14 (OSS-EU week)
    * Individual teams can meet if they wish, but most people will be occupied
* SIG meeting frequency 
* SIG/WG needs to be recorded?
    * Yes

<h5>Section 1 Team Update</h5>




* 

<h5>Section 2 Team Update</h5>




* 

<h5>Section 3 Team Update</h5>




* 

<h3>Meeting Notes</h3>




* CRob was waiting on the section 3 timing before contacting the Foundation for formal meet time and link and will endeavor to make sure sections can make progress
* CRob met with an educator friend of his who teaches purple teaming, hoping to lure them into providing feedback and getting them involved.
* VM was at the OpenEurope meeting who lamented about the lack of education around cyber security and supply chain security of open source. VM kindly provided them the details of this group so hopefully they will come!

<h3>20220824</h3>


<h3>Attendees </h3>


(please **Mark your name is black if you are here,** or add-row name/email/affiliation if joining)


<table>
  <tr>
   <td><strong>Name</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Email</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Affiliation </strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Pronouns</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>GH ID</strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Dave Russo
   </td>
   <td>drusso@redhat.com
   </td>
   <td>Red Hat
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>drusso-rh
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Glenn ten Cate
   </td>
   <td>glenntencate@gmail.com
   </td>
   <td>SKF
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>blabla1337
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>VM (Vicky) Brasseur
   </td>
   <td>vm.brasseur@wipro.com
   </td>
   <td>Wipro
   </td>
   <td>she/her
   </td>
   <td>vmbrasseur
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>CRob
   </td>
   <td>crob@intel.com
   </td>
   <td>Intel
   </td>
   <td>he/him
   </td>
   <td>SecurityCRob
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Eric Tice
   </td>
   <td>eric.tice@wipro.com
   </td>
   <td>Wipro
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>erictice
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Randall T. Vasquez
   </td>
   <td>ran.dall@icloud.com
   </td>
   <td>Gentoo/Homebrew
   </td>
   <td>he/him
   </td>
   <td>ran-dall
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Judy Kelly
   </td>
   <td>jkelly@redhat.com
   </td>
   <td>Red Hat
   </td>
   <td>she/her
   </td>
   <td>judyobrienie
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Christine Abernathy
   </td>
   <td>c.abernathy@f5.com
   </td>
   <td>F5
   </td>
   <td>she/her
   </td>
   <td>caabernathy
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Emily Fox
   </td>
   <td>themoxiefoxatwork@gmail.com
   </td>
   <td>Apple, CNCF TOC
   </td>
   <td>she/her
   </td>
   <td>TheFoxAtWork
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Daniel Appelquist
   </td>
   <td>daniel.appelquist@snyk.io
   </td>
   <td>Snyk
   </td>
   <td>he/him
   </td>
   <td>Torgo
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Jacob Cox
   </td>
   <td>jcox@trideum.com
   </td>
   <td>Trideum
   </td>
   <td>he/him
   </td>
   <td>coxjacob
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Michael Biocchi
   </td>
   <td>michael.biocchi@snyk.io
   </td>
   <td>Snyk
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
</table>


<h3>Agenda</h3>




* Welcome new friends
    * Jacob Cox (Trideum)
    * Daniel Appelquist (Snyk)
    * Michael Biocchi (Snyk)
* Anyone willing to assist in scribing?
* Collect Opens
* Please add your GH ID so we can get permissions set on repo
    * [https://github.com/ossf/education/tree/main/plan](https://github.com/ossf/education/tree/main/plan) 
* [5min - DR] Review shiny new GH repo & talk about next phase of collab
    * GH permissions are forthcoming - **@CRob** is going to submit a bulk request
* [5min - DR/CRR] As we move into this new phase of work, do we desire to change full SIG call to every 2 weeks to allow more time/flexibility for subteams?
* [30min - All] Work on SIG Mission & Vision + Chartery stuff

<h3>Opens (pending)</h3>




* [drusso] Zoom setup for the subgroup meetings?
    * Give CRob the details (meeting name, time time zone, etc.) in this doc and tag him
* 

<h3>Meeting Notes</h3>




* Plan changes are tracked and stored in [https://github.com/ossf/education/tree/main/plan](https://github.com/ossf/education/tree/main/plan)
    * three sections for three subgroups with three separate docs in order to better manage the content
    * **ACTION:** Each section leader: please send a notice to the mailing list and slack to solicit meeting times for interested collaborators
    * [drusso] FYI - **_OSSF EDU SIG Collect & Curate Content_** subgroup meeting Doodle result: **_Thursday 9:00am Eastern_**, starting **_Thursday Sept 1, recurring every 2 weeks_** (preferably scheduled for the EDU SIG off-week going forward)
        * First meeting will be Thursday September 1st (contingent on Zoom set up)
    * [Glenn] Expand Training - subgroup meeting time to be determined
        * **4:30pm EST alternating Thursdays starting Sept 1 recurring**
    * [Sal] - Reward and Incentivize Developers and Maintainers to be determined
* Does the group still need to meet weekly?
    * There will be sub groups that are meeting to complete content (to be scheduled)
    * Then there is the broader group meeting (currently weekly)
    * Proposal to **meet bi-weekly and have the sub-groups report back**
        * **Agreed**
* SIGs GitHub repo has a standard template.  We need to define our scope and objectives
    * Check out the readme
* Need to add a clarifying statement around primary and secondary education being out of scope for now, and executed in a later portion of the plan
* What is out of scope?
    * Don't stand up a university or college
    * Primary or secondary education programs (currently, subject to change at a later date)
* What is in scope?
    * Providing easy to understand material to cover a variety of skill levels 
    * Provide accessible educational material
    * … to be further defined as a result of the sub group work
* **HOMEWORK**: Review charter (objectives) and scope items and provide feedback
* **HOMEWORK**: Subgroup leads to get CRob meeting information and tag him in the doc
    * Each section leader: please send a notice to the mailing list and slack to solicit meeting times for interested collaborators
* SIG Recap
    * [OSSF Mobilization Plan](https://8112310.fs1.hubspotusercontent-na1.net/hubfs/8112310/OpenSSF/White%20House%20OSS%20Mobilization%20Plan.pdf?hsCtaTracking=3b79d59d-e8d3-4c69-a67b-6b87b325313c%7C7a1a8b01-65ae-4bac-b97c-071dac09a2d8) is an action plan to proactively address the need for maturing cybersecurity
    * Stream 1 focuses on improving security education for developers, the Best Practices WG adopted this stream and created the Education SIG
    * The SIG reviewed and refined the Stream 1 plan
    * The subgroups were formed to address specific parts of the plan and further refine and determine how to execute on the tasks
* FYI - [OSSF Calendar](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/u/0/r/week)

<h3>20220817</h3>


<h3>Attendees </h3>


(please **Mark your name is black if you are here,** or add-row name/email/affiliation if joining)


<table>
  <tr>
   <td><strong>Name</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Email</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Affiliation </strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Pronouns</strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Dave Russo
   </td>
   <td>drusso@redhat.com
   </td>
   <td>Red Hat
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Glenn ten Cate
   </td>
   <td>glenntencate@gmail.com
   </td>
   <td>SKF
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>David A. Wheeler
   </td>
   <td>dwheeler@linuxfoundation.org
   </td>
   <td>Linux Foundation
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>VM (Vicky) Brasseur
   </td>
   <td>vm.brasseur@wipro.com
   </td>
   <td>Wipro
   </td>
   <td>she/her
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>CRob
   </td>
   <td>crob@intel.com
   </td>
   <td>Intel
   </td>
   <td>he/him
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Sal Kimmich
   </td>
   <td>skimmich@sonatype.com
   </td>
   <td>Sonatype
   </td>
   <td>they/them
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Eric Tice
   </td>
   <td>eric.tice@wipro.com
   </td>
   <td>Wipro
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Randall T. Vasquez
   </td>
   <td>ran.dall@icloud.com
   </td>
   <td>Gentoo/Homebrew
   </td>
   <td>he/him
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Judy Kelly
   </td>
   <td>jkelly@redhat.com
   </td>
   <td>Red Hat
   </td>
   <td>she/her
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Matt Rutkowski
   </td>
   <td>mrutkows@us.ibm.com
   </td>
   <td>IBM
   </td>
   <td>he/him
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Christine Abernathy
   </td>
   <td>c.abernathy@f5.com
   </td>
   <td>F5
   </td>
   <td>she/her
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Emily Fox
   </td>
   <td>themoxiefoxatwork@gmail.com
   </td>
   <td>Apple, CNCF TOC
   </td>
   <td>she/her
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Dan Appelquist
   </td>
   <td>daniel.appelquist@snyk.io
   </td>
   <td>Snyk
   </td>
   <td>he/him
   </td>
  </tr>
</table>


<h3>Agenda</h3>




* Welcome new friends
    * Dan Appelquist (Snyk) - please contact re: Snyk!
* Anyone willing to assist in scribing?
* Collect Opens
* Finish review of Plan 2.0 starting at [5.3](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1DHxj3thd6KJdXaQv8JFKM88-x2qA3dXEfLMPwVDwujQ/edit#)  (yay!)
* **DECISION NEEDED -** Do we post “Final” plan as md file in our git or continue to edit in gdoc?
    * Debate
        * 
    * Group decision
        * Approved moving the plan into a GitHub md file
        * **@CRob/@Dave** to upload the plan as three separate files, one for each pillar; send out a Git link to the team
* Get volunteers for section leaders 
    * 1.) Collect & Curate Content 
        * Lead: Dave Russo
        * Team: Sal Kimmich, Emily Fox, Judy Kelly, VMB, Randall T. Vasquez, Christine Abernathy, Avishay Balter
    * 2.) Expand Training
        * Lead: Glenn ten Cate
        * Team: Christine Abernathy,, Randall T. Vasquez
    * 3.)  Reward and Incentivize Developers and Maintainers 
        * Lead: Sal Kimmich
        * Team: Emily Fox, VMB, Randall T. Vasquez, Christine Abernathy
    * How to setup and record meetings? 
        * **@CRob** will work with Jory for zoom setup
        * **@Leads** should setup a Doodle to determine meeting times
    * Create three separate issues to track each of these pillars so the entire group has visibility to issues / decisions
* Review next phase of work (using [1.1](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1DHxj3thd6KJdXaQv8JFKM88-x2qA3dXEfLMPwVDwujQ/edit#heading=h.8pxqg2x5nkey) as exemplar), solicit small group participation, & schedule focused section calls to fill out plan details

<h3>Opens (pending)</h3>




* [Judy] just to point out - I think it would be good to nail down our mission statement for[ https://github.com/ossf/project-template/blob/main/CHARTER.md](https://github.com/ossf/project-template/blob/main/CHARTER.md)
    * Make this the first task for the next meeting
* 

<h3>Meeting Notes</h3>




* Draft Plan 5.4.2 
    * Suggestion: Would it viable to ask people who have been certified to write and share their success -this certification helped me and why.
    * This is desirable but may fall more under outreach than in this task
* When / how to share status of the SIG with the Best Practices WG 
    * Not required but useful - pull additional contributors
    * We can do so next WG meeting
* Do we have a formal public comment period (for the foundation-level, maybe internet)?
    * Group agrees we should do this (2 week period)
    * Plan should be done sometime in Q4 and ready to present

<h3>20220810</h3>


<h3>Attendees </h3>


(please **Mark your name is black if you are here,** or add-row name/email/affiliation if joining)


<table>
  <tr>
   <td><strong>Name</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Email</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Affiliation </strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Pronouns</strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Dave Russo
   </td>
   <td>drusso@redhat.com
   </td>
   <td>Red Hat
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Riccardo ten Cate
   </td>
   <td>riccardotencate@gmail.com
   </td>
   <td>SKF
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>David A. Wheeler
   </td>
   <td>dwheeler@linuxfoundation.org
   </td>
   <td>Linux Foundation
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>VM (Vicky) Brasseur
   </td>
   <td>vm.brasseur@wipro.com
   </td>
   <td>Wipro
   </td>
   <td>she/her
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>CRob
   </td>
   <td>crob@intel.com
   </td>
   <td>Intel
   </td>
   <td>he/him
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Sal Kimmich
   </td>
   <td>skimmich@sonatype.com
   </td>
   <td>Sonatype
   </td>
   <td>they/them
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Avishay Balter
   </td>
   <td>avbalter@microsoft.com
   </td>
   <td>Microsoft
   </td>
   <td>he/him
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Eric Tice
   </td>
   <td>eric.tice@wipro.com
   </td>
   <td>Wipro
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Randall T. Vasquez
   </td>
   <td>ran.dall@icloud.com
   </td>
   <td>Gentoo/Homebrew
   </td>
   <td>he/him
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Judy Kelly
   </td>
   <td>jkelly@redhat.com
   </td>
   <td>Red Hat
   </td>
   <td>she/her
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Matt Rutkowski
   </td>
   <td>mrutkows@us.ibm.com
   </td>
   <td>IBM
   </td>
   <td>he/him
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Christine Abernathy
   </td>
   <td>c.abernathy@f5.com
   </td>
   <td>F5
   </td>
   <td>she/her
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Emily Fox
   </td>
   <td>themoxiefoxatwork@gmail.com
   </td>
   <td>Apple, CNCF TOC
   </td>
   <td>she/her
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Brian Fox
   </td>
   <td>brianf@sonatype.com
   </td>
   <td>Sonatype, OSSF GB
   </td>
   <td>he/him
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Sebastian Crane
   </td>
   <td>seabass-labrax@gmx.com
   </td>
   <td>SPDX
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
</table>


<h3>Agenda</h3>




* Welcome new friends
* Anyone willing to assist in scribing?
* Collect Opens
* Pickup at [section 4.11](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1DHxj3thd6KJdXaQv8JFKM88-x2qA3dXEfLMPwVDwujQ/edit#) with Plan2.0 review
*  I 

<h3>Opens (pending)</h3>




* CRob: LF’s going to include an OpenSSF Day at Open Source Summit in Dublin
    * Interested in speaking? Keep an eye out for an email from Jory
    * Will probably try to talk about the Researcher CVD Guide
    * Maybe an in-person meet up?

<h3>Meeting Notes</h3>




* On to the plan! 
    * Starting in section 4
* Metrics?
    * DW: Number people started (and maybe completed) a course
        * Can’t get completion data from edX
        * Can get some slightly weird numbers from LF (started, completed, but not pipeline; takes time to complete it, natch)
    * CRob: Certs achieved (== course completions)
    * Sal: Percentage of projects w/scorecard compliance
        * Won’t be a direct correlation of our efforts, but still interesting
    * Emily: Nothing in here reflects/covers people before the professionalisation level (pre-uni)
        * Can we show improvement at the university level?
        * Generally support this idea, but we’ll need people w/expertise in pre-uni to support this sort of education
        * Emily: Then any metrics should be scoped accordingly, esp. for first 12-18 months
            * Emily from chat: to clarify my earlier recommendation, may i suggest the language be adjusted that “All programs, outreach, and engagement efforts will include success criteria that show effectiveness of the program beyond completion rates”
            * We changed this wording for 4.11
        * DW: Also note: the online courses don’t care about your age
    * CRob: Commitments around office hours/ mentorship/shadowing? Can we measure against that?
        * DW: Grassroots education requires grass. Mentorship is great, but implies a relatively small number of learners matched to a mentor. Right now there are too many devs who need the help. Can’t make promises we can’t keep.
        * Sal: Need to be clear in Y1 vs Y2 goals. Numbers should be around professionalisation. Get several thousand people through the system.
    * CRob (by way of Sal): Of top 200 projects, every one of them has a trained security person among contributors by end of year 2
        * Shoot for the moon; we will miss, but still will get more people trained
    * Dave R (DR): Note: great ideas but may be getting into too much detail for today
        * Thanks, Dave! Excellent point.
* On to Section 5!
    * 5.1: Localisation. Commit after Y1?
        * VMB: Love it, but set some targets. Eg: “By EOY2, have 75% of all our educational material be localised into at least one other locale”
        * Emily: For translation/localisation, need to ensure it’s in a format that localisers can access
            * CRob: Agreed! We need to ensure our materials aren’t locked up where others can’t access them
        * Sal: CNCF approach is to ID leaders (paid) around this; have own space in Slack, etc
            * Folks can ensure these are translations, not simply word for word vocab swaps
    * 5.2
        * Sal: 2 labels important here: “untraditional pathways to professional careers” and “under-represented people in tech”
            * +1 by folks; important to be clear about goals to expand this to more people; making these hires specific in this way makes it easier for us to be successful
        * Added a third role to cover three major areas of outreach specialisation
    * 5.3: Add a librarian! (VMB is a big fan of this idea)
        * Create and gather resources, have a place/tool to collect it, someone to maintain the collection
        * We’re going to aim to hire this role in Y1
        * Emily: Suggestion to move 5.3.1 up to 1.2.1, move 5.3.2 to year 2
    * 5.3.2: Fix the wrong answers on StackOverflow
        * VMB: This isn’t a 5.3 thing (Emily +1)
        * Emily from chat: i would also suggest that this not just be limited to Stack Overflow. This is a misinformation correction activity which is monumental
        * Sebastian: SO maybe not great there, because of the CC licenses of SO? No explicit patent carve out?
            * Sebastian from chat: The 'non-patent' part of the licence that Stack Overflow uses is in section 2.b.2 of the CC-BY-SA-4.0 license, for anyone who's interested. [https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode) 
            * DW: nothing preventing people from licensing differently in their snippets
            * DW: people get their snippets from SO, so license aside this is a massive leak; people keep copying insecure code
            * Sal: Cross this bridge in a year; find a way to highlight/tag answers as potentially insecure
            * DR: For now, limit scope to SO but call out that we’ve a plan to expand beyond that
            * DR: Moving this to a new section
        * DW: Need to swing back around and add a dollar figure here
    * 5.4: track certifications, Y2 expansion
        * Emily: Is this explicitly intended to be separate from success criteria of education efforts above? Merge?
            * CRob: Currently the measurement has no funding/resources; this would support that
            * DW: want to make it easy to see who has which certs
            * DR: Suggestion to start here at 5.4 on next call

<h3>20220803</h3>


<h3>Attendees </h3>


(please **Mark your name is black if you are here,** or add-row name/email/affiliation if joining)


<table>
  <tr>
   <td><strong>Name</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Email</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Affiliation </strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Pronouns</strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Dave Russo
   </td>
   <td>drusso@redhat.com
   </td>
   <td>Red Hat
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Riccardo ten Cate
   </td>
   <td>riccardotencate@gmail.com
   </td>
   <td>SKF
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>David A. Wheeler
   </td>
   <td>dwheeler@linuxfoundation.org
   </td>
   <td>Linux Foundation
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>VM (Vicky) Brasseur
   </td>
   <td>vm.brasseur@wipro.com
   </td>
   <td>Wipro
   </td>
   <td>she/her
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>CRob
   </td>
   <td>crob@intel.com
   </td>
   <td>Intel
   </td>
   <td>he/him
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Marta Rybczynska
   </td>
   <td>rybczynska@gmail.com
   </td>
   <td>OSTC
   </td>
   <td>she/her
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Sal Kimmich
   </td>
   <td>skimmich@sonatype.com
   </td>
   <td>Sonatype
   </td>
   <td>they/them
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Avishay Balter
   </td>
   <td>avbalter@microsoft.com
   </td>
   <td>Microsoft
   </td>
   <td>he/him
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Eric Tice
   </td>
   <td>eric.tice@wipro.com
   </td>
   <td>Wipro
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Georg Kunz
   </td>
   <td>georg.kunz@ericsson.com
   </td>
   <td>Ericsson
   </td>
   <td>he/him
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Randall T. Vasquez
   </td>
   <td>ran.dall@icloud.com
   </td>
   <td>Gentoo/Homebrew
   </td>
   <td>he/him
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Judy Kelly
   </td>
   <td>jkelly@redhat.com
   </td>
   <td>Red Hat
   </td>
   <td>she/her
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Matt Rutkowski
   </td>
   <td>mrutkows@us.ibm.com
   </td>
   <td>IBM
   </td>
   <td>he/him
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Christine Abernathy
   </td>
   <td>c.abernathy@f5.com
   </td>
   <td>F5
   </td>
   <td>she/her
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Tom Ritter
   </td>
   <td>tom.ritter@digitalimpactnow.com
   </td>
   <td>DIN
   </td>
   <td>he/him
   </td>
  </tr>
</table>


<h3>Agenda</h3>




* Welcome new friends
* Anyone willing to assist in scribing?
* Collect Opens
* SIG/WG Business 

<h3>Opens (pending)</h3>




* Patches welcome to help fill our our git [README.md](https://github.com/ossf/education/blob/main/README.md)
* Can we decide on our mission statement for https://github.com/ossf/education/blob/main/CHARTER.md
    * Put a pin in this, there is a lot of governance activities going on with the TAC; we can begin putting together a general charter if we’d like
    * Action Item: Need to define mission and vision statement to scope aims
* Working on plan (starting 4.3), “Plan for Improving Education on Developing Secure Software”, [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1DHxj3thd6KJdXaQv8JFKM88-x2qA3dXEfLMPwVDwujQ/edit](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1DHxj3thd6KJdXaQv8JFKM88-x2qA3dXEfLMPwVDwujQ/edit)

<h3>Meeting Notes</h3>




* New Friends? Not today
* Review [Plan for Improving Education on Developing Secure Software](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1DHxj3thd6KJdXaQv8JFKM88-x2qA3dXEfLMPwVDwujQ/edit#) revisions
    * just to remind people of this working document to collect existing material[ https://docs.google.com/document/d/1BHJ1EMtP_3mVqW6e97qRcwwWkP6b3o8R47KJ0gxJuHo/edit](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1BHJ1EMtP_3mVqW6e97qRcwwWkP6b3o8R47KJ0gxJuHo/edit)

One-page on dependencies

<h3>20220727</h3>


<h3>Attendees </h3>


(please **Mark your name is black if you are here,** or add-row name/email/affiliation if joining)


<table>
  <tr>
   <td><strong>Name</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Email</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Affiliation </strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Pronouns</strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Dave Russo
   </td>
   <td>drusso@redhat.com
   </td>
   <td>Red Hat
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Eric Tice
   </td>
   <td>eric.tice@wipro.com
   </td>
   <td>Wipro
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>VM (Vicky) Brasseur
   </td>
   <td>vm.brasseur@wipro.com
   </td>
   <td>Wipro
   </td>
   <td>she/her
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Avishay Balter
   </td>
   <td>avbalter@microsoft.com
   </td>
   <td>Microsoft
   </td>
   <td>He/Him
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Marta Rybczynska
   </td>
   <td>rybczynska@gmail.com
   </td>
   <td>OSTC
   </td>
   <td>she/her
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Sandipan Roy
   </td>
   <td>sandipan@redhat.com
   </td>
   <td>Red Hat
   </td>
   <td>He/Him
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Judy Kelly
   </td>
   <td>jkelly@redhat.com
   </td>
   <td>Red Hat 
   </td>
   <td>she/her
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Sal Kimmich
   </td>
   <td>skimmich@sonatype.com
   </td>
   <td>Sonatype
   </td>
   <td>they/them
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Christine Abernathy
   </td>
   <td>c.abernathy@f5.com
   </td>
   <td>F5
   </td>
   <td>she/her
   </td>
  </tr>
</table>


<h3>Agenda</h3>




* Welcome new friends
* Anyone willing to assist in scribing?
* Collect Opens
* SIG/WG Business
* Review (and approve??) Plan revisions

<h3>Opens (pending)</h3>




* New mailing list: [openssf-sig-education@lists.openssf.org](mailto:openssf-sig-education@lists.openssf.org) 
* Patches welcome to help fill our our git [README.md](https://github.com/ossf/education/blob/main/README.md)
* Can we decide on our mission statement for https://github.com/ossf/education/blob/main/CHARTER.md
    * Put a pin in this, there is a lot of governance activities going on with the TAC; we can begin putting together a general charter if we’d like
    * Action Item: Need to define mission and vision statement to scope aims

<h3>Meeting Notes</h3>




* New Friends? Not today
* Review [Plan for Improving Education on Developing Secure Software](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1DHxj3thd6KJdXaQv8JFKM88-x2qA3dXEfLMPwVDwujQ/edit#) revisions
    * just to remind people of this working document to collect existing material[ https://docs.google.com/document/d/1BHJ1EMtP_3mVqW6e97qRcwwWkP6b3o8R47KJ0gxJuHo/edit](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1BHJ1EMtP_3mVqW6e97qRcwwWkP6b3o8R47KJ0gxJuHo/edit)
* 

<h3>20220720</h3>


<h3>Attendees </h3>


(please **Mark your name is black if you are here,** or add-row name/email/affiliation if joining)


<table>
  <tr>
   <td><strong>Name</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Email</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Affiliation </strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Pronouns</strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>CRob
   </td>
   <td>CRob@intel.com
   </td>
   <td>Intel/OSSF
   </td>
   <td>he/him
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>VM (Vicky) Brasseur
   </td>
   <td>vm.brasseur@wipro.com
   </td>
   <td>Wipro
   </td>
   <td>she/her
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Eric Tice
   </td>
   <td>eric.tice@wipro.com
   </td>
   <td>Wipro
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Dave Russo
   </td>
   <td>drusso@redhat.com
   </td>
   <td>Red Hat
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Judy Kelly
   </td>
   <td>jkelly@redhat.com
   </td>
   <td>Red Hat
   </td>
   <td>she/her
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Marta Rybczynska
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Brian Behlendorf
   </td>
   <td>bbehlendorf@linuxfoundation.org
   </td>
   <td>LF/OpenSSF
   </td>
   <td>he/him
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Matt Rutkowski
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Avishay Balter
   </td>
   <td><a href="mailto:Avbalter@microsoft.com">Avbalter@microsoft.com</a> 
   </td>
   <td>Microsoft 
   </td>
   <td>he/him
   </td>
  </tr>
</table>


<h3>Agenda</h3>




* Welcome new friends
* Anyone willing to assist in scribing?
* Collect Opens
* Anyone interested in helping co-lead the SIG?
* Reflect on thoughts of conversation/notes about plan so far?  
    * What gaps do we still have?
* Refine personas/areas of focus for a) learners  b)institutions c)content delivery channel [or however we’d like to organize ourselves]
* Begin building 2.0 plan & “dividing and conquering”
    * David is starting to take the plan + our notes and is drafting the [2.0 plan](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1DHxj3thd6KJdXaQv8JFKM88-x2qA3dXEfLMPwVDwujQ/)
    * We will begin to fill out the details and gaps
    * We will be looking for volunteers to lead/facilitate/own some of the goals/sections so that we can parallelize more of our work
* 

<h3>Opens (pending)</h3>




* CRob OOTO 25July-1Aug -** is someone interested in helping lead the meeting on 27July?**
    * Dave may be able to, will let CRob know if conflict can be cleared
    * Eric is also available if needed
* Patches welcome to help fill our our git [README.md](https://github.com/ossf/education/blob/main/README.md)
* **@CRob** - get mailing list & slack setup/broadcast
* Slack channel for this SIG? Once we decide CRob will proceed
    * [Brian] The Edu Stream [channel](https://app.slack.com/client/T019QHUBYQ3/C03FW3YGXH9) can be used
    * Vicky suggests using the existing Best Practices channel
* [Judy] Thoughts on recruiting additional people?
    * [CRob] Thinks we have enough folks based on the current tasks, however the next stage (details and execution) will require owners to drive the tasks in subgroups. This will require additional hands in the longer term.
    * There was a Cyber Edu meeting at the White House yesterday and this SIG was mentioned at least twice - more details to come from David and Brian and CRob
    * Invite your friends! Any reference materials will be helpful.
    * [Avishay] Will talk to folks inside MS
* 

<h3>Meeting Notes</h3>




* New friends? Not this week
* New Mailing list sent out last week
* 

<h4>Personas/Areas of Focus</h4>




* Learner Personas - [https://elearningindustry.com/steps-to-creating-learner-personas](https://elearningindustry.com/steps-to-creating-learner-personas) 
        * Should we consult with someone in education for guidance?
        * [Dave] Should we look at personas as Beginner/Intermediate/Advanced instead of middle school / college / job changer? (e.g. 100/200/300-level courses)
            * [Marta] Split that into Beginner/intermediate/Expert in security and Beginner/Intermediate/Expert in coding - multiple combinations can exist
            * [Eric] Should we also readdress the concept of a Mastery Program which I mentioned during the mobilization discussion where you earn badges for level of competency
            * “Belt” approach (white [beginner] through black [expert] of demostrable levels of expertise)
            * **@CRob** to send out an e-mail for a vote on this decision (personas vs skill levels) - due 29 July, discuss results in 03 Aug call
    * College/University Student
        * [Eric] A core curriculum would be useful (if they adopt it); this is also applicable to high school
        * [CRob] May need more advanced content for experienced learners
    * Secondary Education (middle/high school)
    * Trade School
    * Career Changer
    * Experienced dev looking for new skills
    * Managers
* Institutions/Groups to engage
    * [Judy] Do we know what groups we want to impact? Underserved communities, universities, middle/high school students
    * [CRob] We should prioritize groups where we can have the most impact in the short term
    * Does anyone have suggestions for non-North American groups?
        * [Eric] We will take a look at India based groups
        * [Judy] Will look in Ireland
    * [Judy] we could use local unis we have relationships with as POC/pilot to test out materials
    * [Matt] What is the unique angle we have (like SLSA)?
    * [CRob] In the future we will need to discuss how to deal with certification / accreditation - this is related to the conversation with someone in education
        * [Marta] A certificate does not have the same worth in every culture - some it is more important, others it is less so
    * [Judy] Have we considered mentorships? Maybe through our own companies?
        * Talk to our orgs about supplying folks as mentors (scaling is a concern)
        * [Vicky] exercism.io teaches programming languages and leverages mentors, this is a good model for this sort of learning and creating a mentor pool
    * IN SCOPE
        * Girls Who Code, Codebar, Code2040
        * HBCUs
        * [(ISC)2](https://www.isc2.org/)/ISCA
        * ACM & IEEE
        * US Dept Ed, CISA
        * Linux User groups/interest groups at Meetup and such  \
(for people who are already in the development field)
    * OUT OF SCOPE (this will turn into a Backlog)
        * Middle School level
        * Narrow down languages
        * Maybe break apart existing training into modules for skill levels / personas
        * 
* Content Delivery Channels
        * [Vicky] Should focus on channels that have localization capabilities - this will make things easier down the road
        * [Vicky] A diversity of formats will help address accessibility concerns and allows for more people to participate
        * [Marta] Making courses “living” and able to deal with changes in materials will impact localization and accessibility efforts - budget will be needed for all of these points
            * [Vicky] Universities all have language departments with students that need experience… Being embedded in the institution makes this easier.
    * Fundamentals Course (EDx, LF, Scorm)
        * [Eric] These are great content but not hands-on, college students don’t get a lot of immersion into specific languages; we should look at how to build materials for those who learn better by doing
    * SKF - hands-on-keyboard labs & learning
    * Webinars
    * Conferences (maybe craft these into a library of materials)
        * Birds of a feather/mentoring session
        * Sessions in developer-focus conferences (not security conferences)
        * Lightning talks
    * Boot camp training
    * Podcast
    * Hackathon-type materials (dev-focused, devops-focused)
    * Blogs
    * Docs/cheat sheets/self-paced 
    * Videos

<h3>20220713</h3>


<h3>Attendees </h3>


(please **Mark your name is black if you are here,** or add-row name/email/affiliation if joining)


<table>
  <tr>
   <td><strong>Name</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Email</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Affiliation </strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>CRob
   </td>
   <td>CRob@intel.com
   </td>
   <td>Intel/OSSF
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>VM (Vicky) Brasseur
   </td>
   <td>vm.brasseur@wipro.com
   </td>
   <td>Wipro
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Glenn ten Cate
   </td>
   <td>glenn.ten.cate@owasp.org
   </td>
   <td>OWASP-OpenSSF SKF Project
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>David A. Wheeler
   </td>
   <td>dwheeler@linuxfoundation.org
   </td>
   <td>Linux Foundation
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Judy Kelly
   </td>
   <td>jkelly@redhat.com
   </td>
   <td>Red Hat
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Sal Kimmich
   </td>
   <td>skimmich@sonatype.com
   </td>
   <td>Open Source Security
   </td>
  </tr>
</table>


<h3>Agenda</h3>




* Welcome new friends
    * Sal Kimmich
* Anyone willing to assist in scribing?
    * David A. Wheeler
* Collect Opens
* Homework thoughts of “First Year” goals/tasks review
    * What about “job transfer” bootcamp? (transitioning from another profession)
        * Doesn’t bootcamp + university cover that?
* Begin review of “Beyond First Year”
*  Refine personas/areas of focus for a) learners  b)institutions c)content delivery channel [or however we’d like to organize ourselves]
* SIG Mission/Vision/charter
* 

<h3>Opens (pending)</h3>




* 

<h3>Meeting Notes</h3>




* 
<h4>
    Beyond First Year Annual Goals & Costs</h4>


1. ⊲ Localize the most critical educational materials (5 human languages x $200K/language): $1M
2. ⊲ Evangelize/Manage relations with organizations and universities to adopt secure software content. May be split by region. (2 people x $300K): $600k
3. ⊲ Create and curate development secure practices library
    1. Decide where, perhaps on a Open Educational Resource platform [https://www.oercommons.org/](https://www.oercommons.org/) and/or LF Training & Certification platform
    2. Maybe work with StackOverflow (to fix top vulnerable versions & replace them with secure versions) - that’s where most developers get code snippets
    3. (1 person x $300K + infrastructure $100k): $400K
4. ⊲ Implement a system to track over time the number of people who earn various

    certifications and the number OSS projects who have a maintainer who has earned a


    certification, partner with other organizations to make that information easily available:


    $100K

    4. E.g., GitHub, GitLab, LinkedIn, Indeed, LF profiles
    5. Perhaps feedback loop: Be able to track success metrics, followup after getting certifications to see employability
5. ⊲ Expand Certification Badges and Rewards Programs: $500k
6. ⊲ Continue partnerships office (see year 1): $600k
    6. Investigate majorleaguehackathons 
7. ⊲ Scholarships for developers: $250k
    7. Iterate & grow over time as it’s proven out
8. ⊲ Total: $3.45M

<h3>20220706</h3>


<h3>Attendees </h3>


(please type name/email/affiliation)


<table>
  <tr>
   <td><strong>Name</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Email</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Affiliation </strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>CRob
   </td>
   <td>CRob@Intel.com
   </td>
   <td>Intel/OSSF
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>VM (Vicky) Brasseur
   </td>
   <td>vm.brasseur@wipro.com
   </td>
   <td>Wipro
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Eric Tice 
   </td>
   <td>eric.tice@wipro.com
   </td>
   <td>Wipro
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Dave Russo
   </td>
   <td>drusso@redhat.com
   </td>
   <td>Red Hat
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Georg Kunz
   </td>
   <td>georg.kunz@ericsson.com
   </td>
   <td>Ericsson
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>David A. Wheeler
   </td>
   <td>dwheeler@linuxfoundation.org
   </td>
   <td>Linux Foundation
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Marta Rybczynska
   </td>
   <td>For ml/document sharing use rybczynska@gmail.com
   </td>
   <td>OSTC
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Judy Kelly
   </td>
   <td>jkelly@redhat.com
   </td>
   <td>Red Hat
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Muuhh Ikeda
   </td>
   <td>munehiro.ikeda@cybertrust.co.jp
   </td>
   <td>Cybertrust Japan
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Christine Abernathy
   </td>
   <td>c.abernathy@f5.com
   </td>
   <td>F5
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Arnaud J Le Hors
   </td>
   <td>lehors@us.ibm.com
   </td>
   <td>IBM
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Glenn ten Cate
   </td>
   <td>glenn.ten.cate@owasp.org
   </td>
   <td>OWASP-OpenSSF SKF Project
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
</table>


<h3>Agenda</h3>




* Intros
* Review plan Stream 1
    * [https://openssf.org/oss-security-mobilization-plan/](https://openssf.org/oss-security-mobilization-plan/) 
* Craft SIG mission/vision & scope

<h3>Meeting Notes</h3>




* VM - also need to ensure employers are keyed into this; how do we get employers to start recruiting from this pool of trained pros, and seek out these skills - especially OSSF member orgs. Reward & incentivize managers of software developers to get developers to get this kind of education/training
* Marta: Many developers think this is too hard. Need to make it clear it’s not too hard.
* Eric Tice: Could create scholarships. Also, K-12. How do we reward people who come out of high school with certifications? Something that they can note to go beyond their peers. Something that helps them in college admissions - look, they have this LF certificate!
* Christine:
    * Wanted manager persona education, so they’ll know what skills to look for.
    * Perhaps get into hackathons? Could be judged. [https://hackathons.hackclub.com/](https://hackathons.hackclub.com/)
* Jkelly: Gamification In Learning is a great way to engage kids - funding for laptops?
* David A. Wheeler: Propose adding:
    * Manager training (“what is security training for developers all about”) - target ½ hour?
    * K-12 training materials (possibly integrate with capture the flag (CTF)
    * Reach out to universities - why isn’t it happening today as a requirement for undergraduate courses? What could change that?
* Judy - how to do ensure global/holistic approach …do how do we POC this?  How do we measure success?
* Christine - “scholarships” to conferences CNCF ambassadors - giving tickets to people taking class/earn certs

<h3>Review Plan</h3>


<h4>Proposed Approach</h4>




1. Collect & Curate content
2. Expand Training
3. Reward & incentivize developers

<h4>First Year (6 to 18 Months) Goals & Costs  </h4>




1. Document identifying existing courses/materials, with links & maybe short summaries / groupings  “what do we have”
    1. We should be able create a first draft relatively quickly, and that will inform the other steps
    2. Everyone - check internally to your organizations to see what exists
    3. Ask organizations (especially OpenSSF members) to see if they’d be willing to contribute their (internal) materials. Examples: IBM, Intel
    4. We will capture the survey of existing courses/materials here: [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1BHJ1EMtP_3mVqW6e97qRcwwWkP6b3o8R47KJ0gxJuHo/edit#](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1BHJ1EMtP_3mVqW6e97qRcwwWkP6b3o8R47KJ0gxJuHo/edit#)
2. Determine venues / personas - contrast with what exists, look at costs - what’s missing? Include managers.
3. Survey to find out “what’s missing” / “what's wrong”
    5. What are they looking for & can’t find
    6. What’s wrong with it? (both haven’t taken, and also for those who HAVE taken something)
4. Expand/improve existing content and training materials (including train-the-trainers) (2 people $300K): $600K 
5. Develop in-person educator-led variations of training materials (e.g., with hands-on lab work) & go to conferences to encourage training (4 person x $300K): $1.2M 
6. Expand education materials to cover 5 critical languages and ecosystems in more depth (e.g., C/C++, JavaScript/Node/Typescript, Python, Java, Rust, Go, etc.) (0.5 person x 5 x $300K): $750K 
7. Expand labs based off of class materials (2 people x $300K): $600K 
8. Expand Secure Development thought leadership through blogs, webinars, podcasts (1 person x $300K): $300K 
9. Expand existing certification and badge systems to be displayed in source code repositories (GitHub, GitLab), OpenSSF Tooling (Best Practices Badges, Scorecard), and systems like LinkedIn to expand digital and physical badges/recognition rewards: $200k
10. Staff a partnerships office to develop relationships for content delivery: (2 people x $300k): $600k - HBCUs, trade schools, etc
11. Means-tested scholarships for taking and passing courses, $300k plus $50k in administrative overhead: $250k
    7. Issue: How can we avoid working only in 1 region?
    8. How do we determine who should scholarships be targeted to
12. Contact ACM/IEEE - add to accreditation requirements, help integrate it in - probably need to pay someone to do this (may need to contact various universities, etc., to understand why they resist)
13. Incentivize maintainers to take courses
    9. Identify selected maintainers of top OSS projects, pay them to take courses / have certifications! (upskilling)
    10. Encourage employers to hire these people??? (Issue: Past efforts to do this have not worked out well, many people are already very busy) 
    11. Scholarships/grants/grants for developers / potential new developers
    12. Add requirement for some OSS projects / employers / proprietary projects: “all maintainers must take a course in developing secure software, here are some examples”
    13. “Why is this important to me”? One-pager (students, companies, etc)
    14. Award/Highlight “Most secure oss project” award
    15. Support /mentor devs as they take training/certifications (AMA webinar, office hours, full-on mentoring, etc) - mentoring/networking mentor badge
    16. Encourage devs to identify successors (we’re all mortal) & make education/certifications part of successor growth
    17. Tickets to conferences/training

**Do we agree with these items?**

**What is missing?**



* David A. Wheeler: Propose adding list above.
* Marta: What should be the main focus (related to personas): people who will start a career in security or improving security skills of developers who are not in a direct security career?
* Glenn: What is the scope of the security education stream?
    * Web/Api?
    * Infra and CI/CD?
    * Desktop applications?
    * Mobile?

**Do we feel the estimates are realistic/achievable?**

**Do we have volunteers to focus on each effort?  Are their people not here we need to recruit/engage with?**

<h4>Training areas of focus</h4>




* Higher Ed
* Trade school/boot camp/professional 
    * Job change training (new to the career path)
* Primary/secondary education
* Managers of software developers
* Trainers ( Aka Train the trainers )
* Maintainer training (how to do a pr, maintenance)

Working Mission/Vision for our Charter

Deliver Baseline Secure Software Development Education and Certification to All

<h3>REFERENCES</h3>


May WH Committee Notes



* [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Se-GiX2RmvwG6BAP8yKZiRHcKFSzZLZDiARRhh8ujnU/edit#heading=h.99huduowd9ws](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Se-GiX2RmvwG6BAP8yKZiRHcKFSzZLZDiARRhh8ujnU/edit#heading=h.99huduowd9ws) 

OSSF Mobilization Plan



* [https://8112310.fs1.hubspotusercontent-na1.net/hubfs/8112310/OpenSSF/White%20House%20OSS%20Mobilization%20Plan.pdf?hsCtaTracking=3b79d59d-e8d3-4c69-a67b-6b87b325313c%7C7a1a8b01-65ae-4bac-b97c-071dac09a2d8](https://8112310.fs1.hubspotusercontent-na1.net/hubfs/8112310/OpenSSF/White%20House%20OSS%20Mobilization%20Plan.pdf?hsCtaTracking=3b79d59d-e8d3-4c69-a67b-6b87b325313c%7C7a1a8b01-65ae-4bac-b97c-071dac09a2d8) 

<h3>BACKLOG/WISH LIST</h3>




* Personas being addressed
* User Journeys for the top tasks for those personas
* Docs, Docs, Docs
* Tech writer review of all collateral
* Offboarding from projects - good practices

<h3><TEMPLATE></h3>


<h3>Attendees </h3>


(please **Mark your name is black if you are here,** or add-row name/email/affiliation if joining)


<table>
  <tr>
   <td><strong>Name</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Email</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Affiliation </strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Pronouns</strong>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Dave Russo
   </td>
   <td>drusso@redhat.com
   </td>
   <td>Red Hat
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>drusso-rh
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>David A. Wheeler
   </td>
   <td>dwheeler@linuxfoundation.org
   </td>
   <td>Linux Foundation
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Glenn ten Cate
   </td>
   <td>glenntencate@gmail.com
   </td>
   <td>SKF
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>blabla1337
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>VM (Vicky) Brasseur
   </td>
   <td>vm.brasseur@wipro.com
   </td>
   <td>Wipro
   </td>
   <td>she/her
   </td>
   <td>vmbrasseur
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>CRob
   </td>
   <td>crob@intel.com
   </td>
   <td>Intel
   </td>
   <td>he/him
   </td>
   <td>SecurityCRob
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Emily Fox
   </td>
   <td>themoxiefoxatwork@gmail.com
   </td>
   <td>Apple, CNCF TOC
   </td>
   <td>she/her
   </td>
   <td>TheFoxAtWork
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Sal Kimmich
   </td>
   <td>skimmich@sonatype.com
   </td>
   <td>Sonatype
   </td>
   <td>they/them
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Avishay Balter
   </td>
   <td>avbalter@microsoft.com
   </td>
   <td>Microsoft
   </td>
   <td>he/him
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Eric Tice
   </td>
   <td>eric.tice@wipro.com
   </td>
   <td>Wipro
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>erictice
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Judy Kelly
   </td>
   <td>jkelly@redhat.com
   </td>
   <td>Red Hat
   </td>
   <td>she/her
   </td>
   <td>judyobrienie
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Randall T. Vasquez
   </td>
   <td>ran.dall@icloud.com
   </td>
   <td>Gentoo/Homebrew
   </td>
   <td>he/him
   </td>
   <td>ran-dall
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Christine Abernathy
   </td>
   <td>c.abernathy@f5.com
   </td>
   <td>F5
   </td>
   <td>she/her
   </td>
   <td>caabernathy
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Matt Rutkowski
   </td>
   <td>mrutkows@us.ibm.com
   </td>
   <td>IBM
   </td>
   <td>he/him
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Daniel Appelquist
   </td>
   <td>daniel.appelquist@snyk.io
   </td>
   <td>Snyk
   </td>
   <td>he/him
   </td>
   <td>Torgo
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Riccardo ten Cate
   </td>
   <td>riccardotencate@gmail.com
   </td>
   <td>SKF
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Brian Fox
   </td>
   <td>brianf@sonatype.com
   </td>
   <td>Sonatype, OSSF GB
   </td>
   <td>he/him
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Sebastian Crane
   </td>
   <td>seabass-labrax@gmx.com
   </td>
   <td>SPDX
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Georg Kunz
   </td>
   <td>georg.kunz@ericsson.com
   </td>
   <td>Ericsson
   </td>
   <td>he/him
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Marta Rybczynska
   </td>
   <td>rybczynska@gmail.com
   </td>
   <td>OSTC
   </td>
   <td>she/her
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Tom Ritter
   </td>
   <td>tom.ritter@digitalimpactnow.com
   </td>
   <td>DIN
   </td>
   <td>he/him
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
</table>


<h3>Agenda</h3>




* Welcome new friends
* Anyone willing to assist in scribing?
* Collect Opens
* Section Updates
* **We’d like to have plan revisions completed by 01Dec2022 **
* SIG/WG Business
*  

<h3>Opens (pending)</h3>




* 

<h5>Section 1 Team Update (Dave R)</h5>




* 

<h5>Section 2 Team Update (Glenn)</h5>




* 

<h5>Section 3 Team Update (Sal)</h5>




* 

<h3>Meeting Notes</h3>




* 
