<h2 align="center">2023 OpenSSF DEI Working Group Meeting Notes</h2>

*<h6 align="center">Every other Tuesday from 11:00 AM to 12:00 PM EST</h6>*

[LFX Zoom Link](https://zoom-lfx.platform.linuxfoundation.org/meeting/98853031629?password=a356aa22-ab31-4e2e-a8a0-9ecb45af84bd)

[Office Hours Zoom](https://zoom-lfx.platform.linuxfoundation.org/meeting/96465668492?password=b2b44b87-9d5a-4389-8323-2e594565bcd2) *(Once a month on Thursday)*

[Repo](https://github.com/ossf/education)  | [Discussions](https://github.com/ossf/tac/discussions)

[Mailing List](https://lists.openssf.org/g/openssf-sig-education-dei) *Join the Mailing List to receive the calendar meeting invite*

YouTube Channel:  [OpenSSF](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCUdhiXNEBEayowJXY_v7AXQ/) *(New!)*


[**Antitrust Policy Notice**](http://www.linuxfoundation.org/antitrust-policy)

<p align="justify">Linux Foundation meetings involve participation by industry competitors, and it is the intention of the Linux Foundation to conduct all of its activities in accordance with applicable antitrust and competition laws.It is therefore extremely important that attendees adhere to meeting agendas, and be aware of, and not participate in, any activities that are prohibited under applicable US state, federal or foreign antitrust and competition laws. Examples of types of actions that are prohibited at Linux Foundation meetings and in connection with Linux Foundation activities are described in the Linux Foundation Antitrust Policy available at www.linuxfoundation.org/antitrust-policy. If you have questions about these matters, please contact your company counsel, or if you are a member of the Linux Foundation, feel free to contact Andrew Updegrove of the firm of Gesmer Updegrove LLP, which provides legal counsel to the Linux Foundation.</p>

All OpenSSF meeting participants must comply with the OpenSSF [Code of Conduct](https://openssf.org/community/code-of-conduct/) 

Upcoming Topics 

Please add your agenda item, name and approximate time allocation to the bottom of the list.

<h2>Meetings</h2>


<h3>20231219 - Canceled</h3>


Please use the [2024 Meeting Notes](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1zGTOJdFVIMnixT3EFQ6_bbQ0iy7f4Z4TxhX9A5VY9TM/edit?usp=drive_link)

<h3>20231205</h3>


<h3>Attendees </h3>


(Please **Mark your name with an X if you are here,** or add-row name/email/affiliation if joining)


<table>
  <tr>
   <td><strong>Present</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Name</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Email</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Affiliation </strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Pronouns</strong>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>Christine Abernathy*
   </td>
   <td>c.abernathy@
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>she/her
   </td>
   <td>caabernathy
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>Jay White*
   </td>
   <td>jaywhite@mircosoft.com
   </td>
   <td>Microsoft (co-chair)
   </td>
   <td>he/him
   </td>
   <td>camaleon2016
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>Brian Crooks
   </td>
   <td>brian.crooks@datalytica.net
   </td>
   <td>Datalytica
   </td>
   <td>he/him
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>John Kjell
   </td>
   <td>john@testifysec.com
   </td>
   <td>TestifySec
   </td>
   <td>he/him
   </td>
   <td>jkjell
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>Chan Voong
   </td>
   <td>chan_voong@comcast.com
   </td>
   <td>Comcast OSPO
   </td>
   <td>she/her
   </td>
   <td>voongc
   </td>
  </tr>
</table>


<h3>Agenda / Meeting Notes </h3>




* Welcome new friends
    * Brian Crooks
    * Chan Voong
* Anyone willing to assist in scribing?
* Collect Opens (list new items below)
* Chair/Co-Chair appointment/election
    * Jay has been leading but there should be a democratic vote/election
* Meeting times
    * Decide if this alternates, what times work, could TAC members join this meeting?
* Path forward (SIGs, 30/60/90) - [https://github.com/ossf/tac/issues/218](https://github.com/ossf/tac/issues/218) 
    * Is there anyone in LF DEI group who can give us a pulse on open source cybersecurity dei
        * Chan to take on this task
        * CRob will contact Jennifer Bly to ask who in LF would be a good POC
        * Obtain materials from LF
        * See if they would be interested in presenting information/data, lessons learned, etc  \
[https://www.linuxfoundation.org/research/the-2021-linux-foundation-report-on-diversity-equity-and-inclusion-in-open-source](https://www.linuxfoundation.org/research/the-2021-linux-foundation-report-on-diversity-equity-and-inclusion-in-open-source)
        * John to reach out to CNCF DEI to create partnership
    * [https://www.linuxfoundation.org/about/diversity-inclusivity](https://www.linuxfoundation.org/about/diversity-inclusivity) 
* TAC self-nominations now[ open](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSdMkN_H3zVFW7NfZzsanF5isga3PNVUQj7-8VPlVPhb2F2iYQ/viewform)<span style="text-decoration:underline;">, [SCIR nomination form, ](https://forms.gle/ZZkC6zK3T7Ww43uC9) </span>& Voter registration now[ open](https://forms.gle/7suYexAnPxndvX856) 
    * GB appointments?
    * You can’t vote unless you put in a request
* Probably for next year: [https://github.com/ossf/tac/issues/232](https://github.com/ossf/tac/issues/232) (and I can move to WG GitHub instead of TAC)
    * Mentorship opportunities - OpenSSF should join
* 

<h3>Opens (pending)</h3>




* 

<h3>Meeting Notes</h3>




* 

<h3>20231121</h3>


<h3>Attendees </h3>


(Please **Mark your name with an X if you are here,** or add-row name/email/affiliation if joining)


<table>
  <tr>
   <td><strong>Present</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Name</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Email</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Affiliation </strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Pronouns</strong>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>Katherine Druckman
   </td>
   <td>katherine.druckman@intel.com
   </td>
   <td>Intel
   </td>
   <td>she/her
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>Vinod Ahuja
   </td>
   <td>vahuja@fgcu.edu
   </td>
   <td>FGCU
   </td>
   <td>he/him/his
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
</table>


<h3>Agenda</h3>




* Welcome new friends
* Anyone willing to assist in scribing?
* Collect Opens (list new items below)
*  

<h3>Opens (pending)</h3>




* 

<h3>Meeting Notes</h3>




* 

<h3>20231107</h3>


<h3>Attendees </h3>


(Please **Mark your name with an X if you are here,** or add-row name/email/affiliation if joining)


<table>
  <tr>
   <td><strong>Present</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Name</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Email</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Affiliation </strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Pronouns</strong>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>Jay White*
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>Microsoft (co-chair)
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>Amanda Martin
   </td>
   <td>amartin@linuxfoudnation.org
   </td>
   <td>Linux Foundation
   </td>
   <td>she/her
   </td>
   <td>hythloda
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>Cheuk Ho
   </td>
   <td>cheuk@openssf.org
   </td>
   <td>OpensSF
   </td>
   <td>she/her
   </td>
   <td>Cheukting
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>CRob
   </td>
   <td>crob@intel.com
   </td>
   <td>Intel
   </td>
   <td>he/him
   </td>
   <td>SecurityCRob
   </td>
  </tr>
</table>


<h3>Agenda</h3>




* Welcome new friends
* Anyone willing to assist in scribing?
* Collect Opens (list new items below)
*  

<h3>Opens (pending)</h3>




* 

<h3>Meeting Notes</h3>




* When to update the TAC 
    * The meeting after next
    * Process is make an issue in the TAC repo to put it in the agenda

<h3>20231024</h3>


<h3>Attendees </h3>


(Please **Mark your name with an X if you are here,** or add-row name/email/affiliation if joining)


<table>
  <tr>
   <td><strong>Present</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Name</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Email</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Affiliation </strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Pronouns</strong>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>x
   </td>
   <td>Christine Abernathy*
   </td>
   <td>c.abernathy@f5.com
   </td>
   <td>F5 (Co-chair)
   </td>
   <td>she/her
   </td>
   <td>caabernathy
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>x
   </td>
   <td>Jay White*
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>Microsoft (co-chair)
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>x
   </td>
   <td>Cheuk Ho
   </td>
   <td>cheuk@openssf.org
   </td>
   <td>OpensSF
   </td>
   <td>she/her
   </td>
   <td>Cheukting
   </td>
  </tr>
</table>


<h3>Agenda</h3>




* Welcome new friends
* Anyone willing to assist in scribing?
* Collect Opens (list new items below)
*  

<h3>Opens</h3>




* Some folks are at LF Member Summit
* November office hours (November 16): should we target the same audience?
    * Yes.
    * How do we reach this audience?
        * People are aware of LinkedIn. Advertise there to pull people in.
        * To be more targeted could approach certain schools. Look for people with connections.
        * **Jay: Will reach out to UC Santa Cruz OSPO to get them to join.** Faculty could also attend this DEI meeting.
        * **Cheuk Ting Ho: Invite Juanita (OSPO) to join this meeting. Also check with Jennifer Bly to promote this office hours.**
        * Christine: Could do social media by asking some of the top questions that have come up time and again in previous office hours.
        * Cheuk Ting Ho: We could have a social media post titled, “Ask the Expert” and invite readers to post any other top questions they have.
        * **All: Brainstorm questions on Slack and possibly post 3 times in the lead up to the November 16th event**
* MVSR is being discussed - should this be rolled up? The DEI proposal is almost done (Jay worked with CRob on this). The plan is to present it in the TAC meeting after the next one. 
* Would like to get back started on the spreadsheet.
    * **Christine: Ping Nicole on LinkedIn**

<h3>Meeting Notes</h3>




* 

<h3>20231010</h3>


<h3>Attendees </h3>


(please **Mark your name in black if you are here,** or add-row name/email/affiliation if joining)


<table>
  <tr>
   <td><strong>Present</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Name</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Email</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Affiliation </strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Pronouns</strong>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>Jay White*
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>Microsoft (co-chair)
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
</table>


<h3>Agenda</h3>




* Welcome new friends
* Anyone willing to assist in scribing?
* Collect Opens (list new items below)
* Need a new meeting time
    * Will need help with a doodle poll 
* Will adjourn early with no participants

<h3>Opens (pending)</h3>




* 

<h3>Meeting Notes</h3>




* 

<h3>20230926</h3>


<h3>Attendees </h3>


(please **Mark your name in black if you are here,** or add-row name/email/affiliation if joining)


<table>
  <tr>
   <td><strong>Present</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Name</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Email</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Affiliation </strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Pronouns</strong>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>Christine Abernathy*
   </td>
   <td>c.abernathy@f5.com
   </td>
   <td>F5 (Co-chair)
   </td>
   <td>she/her
   </td>
   <td>caabernathy
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>Jay White*
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>Microsoft (co-chair)
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>CRob
   </td>
   <td>crob@intel.com
   </td>
   <td>Intel
   </td>
   <td>he/him
   </td>
   <td>SecurityCRob
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>Emily Fox
   </td>
   <td>themoxiefoxatwork@gmail.com
   </td>
   <td>Apple, CNCF TOC
   </td>
   <td>she/her
   </td>
   <td>TheFoxAtWork
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>Yesenia Yser
   </td>
   <td>yyser@linuxfoundation.org
   </td>
   <td>Linux Foundation
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>cyberjiujiteira
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>Max Mizzi
   </td>
   <td>max@majorleaguehacking.com
   </td>
   <td>MLH
   </td>
   <td>he/him
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>Avishay Balter
   </td>
   <td>avbalter@microsoft.com
   </td>
   <td>Microsoft
   </td>
   <td>he/him
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>Sal Kimmich
   </td>
   <td>salkimmich@gmail.com
   </td>
   <td>EscherCloudAI
   </td>
   <td>they/them
   </td>
   <td>salkimmich
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>Katherine Druckman
   </td>
   <td>katherine.druckman@intel.com
   </td>
   <td>Intel
   </td>
   <td>she/her
   </td>
   <td>katherined
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>Hasan Yasar
   </td>
   <td>hyasar@cmu.edu
   </td>
   <td>CMU
   </td>
   <td>he/him
   </td>
   <td>hyasar
   </td>
  </tr>
</table>


<h3>Agenda</h3>




* Welcome new friends
* Anyone willing to assist in scribing?
* Collect Opens (list new items below)
*  Anyone willing to put content in our GitHub page: [https://github.com/ossf/DEI-SIG](https://github.com/ossf/DEI-SIG) 

<h3>Opens (pending)</h3>




*   

<h3>Meeting Notes</h3>




* 

<h3>20230912</h3>


<h3>Attendees </h3>


(please **Mark your name in black if you are here,** or add-row name/email/affiliation if joining)


<table>
  <tr>
   <td><strong>Present</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Name</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Email</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Affiliation </strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Pronouns</strong>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>Jay White*
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>Microsoft (co-chair)
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>Yesenia Yser
   </td>
   <td>yyser@linuxfoundation.org
   </td>
   <td>Linux Foundation
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>cyberjiujiteira
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>Katherine Druckman
   </td>
   <td>katherine.druckman@intel.com
   </td>
   <td>Intel
   </td>
   <td>she/her
   </td>
   <td>katherined
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>Hasan Yasar
   </td>
   <td>hyasar@cmu.edu
   </td>
   <td>CMU
   </td>
   <td>he/him
   </td>
   <td>hyasar
   </td>
  </tr>
</table>


<h3>Agenda</h3>




* Welcome new friends
* Anyone willing to assist in scribing?
* Collect Opens (list new items below)
*  

<h3>Opens (pending)</h3>




* [YY]  Finalize to migrate to OpenSSF letterhead
* [YY] GraceHopper OSD day
    * Thoughts on Strategy for Alpha-Omega
        * Participants 30k signed up for Grace Hopper, includes the virtual “hackatron” of OSD projects
        * Zoom can fill up to 500 people
        * 3 Mentors from Alpha-Omega; 4-5 provided by GHC
        * Early access to participants via slack
        * Current A/I: 
            * Onboarding video
            * About the Mentors
            * Documentation and resources pinned in slack
            * Review previous years commit for OSD for guesstimate participations
            * (TBD) set a deadline for contributions and get a credibly badge
* New time slot for Education DEI (Jay to reach out to Crob)
    * AI Doodle poll
* Time slot for office hour for October
    * Cancel for Sept with Operations (done - Jay)
* [Form](https://forms.gle/P254Lbqe2mZPK6P46) -  SIG Journey
* Existing document for Office Hours (Schedule + Details)
    * November last office hours
    * Plan for 2024

<h3>20230829</h3>


<h3>Attendees </h3>


(please **Mark your name in black if you are here,** or add-row name/email/affiliation if joining)


<table>
  <tr>
   <td><strong>Name</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Email</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Affiliation </strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Pronouns</strong>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Christine Abernathy*
   </td>
   <td>c.abernathy@f5.com
   </td>
   <td>F5 (Co-chair)
   </td>
   <td>she/her
   </td>
   <td>caabernathy
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Jay White*
   </td>
   <td><a href="mailto:Jaywhite@microsoft.com">Jaywhite@microsoft.com</a> 
   </td>
   <td>Microsoft (co-chair)
   </td>
   <td>He/him
   </td>
   <td>Camaleon2016 
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Yesenia Yser
   </td>
   <td>yyser@linuxfoundation.org
   </td>
   <td>Linux Foundation
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>cyberjiujiteira
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Katherine Druckman
   </td>
   <td>katherine.druckman@intel.com
   </td>
   <td>Intel
   </td>
   <td>she/her
   </td>
   <td>katherined
   </td>
  </tr>
</table>


<h3>Agenda</h3>




* Welcome new friends
* Anyone willing to assist in scribing?
* Collect Opens (list new items below)
* Spreadsheet 
* WG proposal (Jay)

<h3>Opens (pending)</h3>




* 

<h3>Meeting Notes</h3>




* Blog Content
    * Video - Mentee [YY]
    * What is one thing they took away from the mentorship
* Conference material [YY] 
    * Gather documents
    * Grace Hopper slide
* Using Virtual space to share the 1-page for DEI SIG
* 2024 Conference and identify our target
* Alpha-Omega MVSR for DEI
    *  M4: DEI
* Move DEI Office Hours to week after
    * Currently scheduled for Sept 21
    * Agenda
        * How to get your next internship?
        * How do you tweak your internship experience to properly reflect on your resume?

<h3>20230815</h3>


<h3>Attendees </h3>


(please **Mark your name in black if you are here,** or add-row name/email/affiliation if joining)


<table>
  <tr>
   <td><strong>Name</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Email</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Affiliation </strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Pronouns</strong>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Jay White*
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>Microsoft (co-chair)
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>CRob
   </td>
   <td>crob@intel.com
   </td>
   <td>Intel
   </td>
   <td>he/him
   </td>
   <td>SecurityCRob
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Yesenia Yser
   </td>
   <td>yyser@linuxfoundation.org
   </td>
   <td>Linux Foundation
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>cyberjiujiteira
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Max Mizzi
   </td>
   <td>max@majorleaguehacking.com
   </td>
   <td>MLH
   </td>
   <td>he/him
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Katherine Druckman
   </td>
   <td>katherine.druckman@intel.com
   </td>
   <td>Intel
   </td>
   <td>she/her
   </td>
   <td>katherined
   </td>
  </tr>
</table>


<h3>Agenda</h3>




* Welcome new friends
* Anyone willing to assist in scribing?
* Collect Opens (list new items below)
*  

<h3>Opens (pending)</h3>




* 

<h3>Meeting Notes</h3>




* Proposal for upgrading from Sub-committee to a working group (Crob and Jay to finalize - bring in front of TAC).
* DEI conference tracking to promote CFP for OpenSSF DEI (Budget + Talks)
    * [DEI List](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1dFy9TdoVY-xix2vU4KIbruMuu5HyTWmeyT49ubzqYgA/edit#gid=1407793392)
* New invites and links for [Office Hour](https://zoom-lfx.platform.linuxfoundation.org/meeting/96465668492?password=b2b44b87-9d5a-4389-8323-2e594565bcd2)
    * Added to the top of the document
* Fill a PR Best practices members DM to ensure you are accounted for – personalize invite
    * [PR Best Practice to be added](https://github.com/ossf/wg-best-practices-os-developers/blob/main/members.md)

<h3>20230801</h3>


<h3>Attendees </h3>


(please **Mark your name in black if you are here,** or add-row name/email/affiliation if joining)


<table>
  <tr>
   <td><strong>Name</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Email</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Affiliation </strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Pronouns</strong>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Christine Abernathy*
   </td>
   <td>c.abernathy@f5.com
   </td>
   <td>F5 (Co-chair)
   </td>
   <td>she/her
   </td>
   <td>caabernathy
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Jay White*
   </td>
   <td><a href="mailto:Jaywhite@microsoft.com">Jaywhite@microsoft.com</a> 
   </td>
   <td>Microsoft (co-chair)
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Cheuk Ho
   </td>
   <td>ctingho@linuxfoundation.org
   </td>
   <td>Linux Foundation
   </td>
   <td>She/ her
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
</table>


<h3>Agenda</h3>




* Welcome new friends
    * Cheuk: just joined OpenSSF
    * Will Baker: will be helping with the spreadsheet
* Anyone willing to assist in scribing?
* Collect Opens (list new items below)
*  

<h3>Opens</h3>




* DEI Office Hours
    * Were there any themes? There were a lot of questions around how to get into the trade, ex: how to write a resume, explanation of roles for newcomers, how and where to network
* [Katherine] Interviews / FAQs on Working Groups and Projects
    * Put together a test run on how to embed blog posts
    * Next steps is to check with Jennifer Bly on a media release form for video participants
    * Once the process is worked out, and will check back in.
    * [Nicole] Will and AJ are working on this. This should be ready for the next meeting. Will be at DefCon and check if there are any other folks missing from the list. This should be ready for CRob’s event in September and possibly for another DC event.
* Post DefCon - suggestion to have more specific outreach next year.
* Update on process for DEI up-leveling
    * [Jay] Document is almost done. Need to sync with CRob to turn this into an issue for the TAC.
    * Emily has suggested that there’s a sister team in the CNCF that we can engage with in the future once we’re a working group.
    * Goal, get the document shared with this group on August 15th and look to go in front of the TAC on August 22nd. Can circulate beforehand to socialize early.
* Education SIG guest spoke about [Online Learning Consortium](https://onlinelearningconsortium.org/) - an opportunity to collaborate with educators. Sharla (who introduced them) has the action item to reach out to the consortium and work with CRob to intro them to us.

<h3>Meeting Notes</h3>




* 

<h3>20230718</h3>


<h3>Attendees </h3>


(please **Mark your name in black if you are here,** or add-row name/email/affiliation if joining)


<table>
  <tr>
   <td><strong>Name</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Email</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Affiliation </strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Pronouns</strong>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Christine Abernathy*
   </td>
   <td>c.abernathy@f5.com
   </td>
   <td>F5 (Co-chair)
   </td>
   <td>she/her
   </td>
   <td>caabernathy
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Yesenia Yser
   </td>
   <td>yyser@linuxfoundation.org
   </td>
   <td>Linux Foundation
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>cyberjiujiteira
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Nicole
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Amanda Martin
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>Linux Foundation
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Katherine Druckman
   </td>
   <td>katherine.druckman@intel.com
   </td>
   <td>Intel
   </td>
   <td>she/her
   </td>
   <td>katherined
   </td>
  </tr>
</table>


<h3>Agenda</h3>




* Welcome new friends
    * 
* Anyone willing to assist in scribing?
* Collect Opens (list new items below)
*  

<h3>Opens</h3>




*  “SIG Journey” idea
    * Create a video - “interview”
    * Volunteer - AI S + Nicole for reviewing 
* [NIcole] Working on the community group list
    * Conf by the end of July/ early august
    * Ready for Crob by Sept

<h3>Meeting Notes</h3>




* 

<h3>20230620</h3>


<h3>Attendees </h3>


(please **Mark your name in black if you are here,** or add-row name/email/affiliation if joining)


<table>
  <tr>
   <td><strong>Name</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Email</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Affiliation </strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Pronouns</strong>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Christine Abernathy*
   </td>
   <td>c.abernathy@f5.com
   </td>
   <td>F5 (Co-chair)
   </td>
   <td>she/her
   </td>
   <td>caabernathy
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Jay White*
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>Microsoft (co-chair)
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>CRob
   </td>
   <td>crob@intel.com
   </td>
   <td>Intel
   </td>
   <td>he/him
   </td>
   <td>SecurityCRob
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Yesenia Yser
   </td>
   <td>yyser@linuxfoundation.org
   </td>
   <td>Linux Foundation
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>cyberjiujiteira
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Sal Kimmich
   </td>
   <td>salkimmich@gmail.com
   </td>
   <td>EscherCloudAI
   </td>
   <td>they/them
   </td>
   <td>salkimmich
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Katherine Druckman
   </td>
   <td>katherine.druckman@intel.com
   </td>
   <td>Intel
   </td>
   <td>she/her
   </td>
   <td>katherined
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Jennifer Bly
   </td>
   <td>jbly@linuxfoundation.org
   </td>
   <td>OpenSSF
   </td>
   <td>she/her
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
</table>


<h3>Agenda</h3>




* Welcome new friends
    * AJ
* Anyone willing to assist in scribing?
* Collect Opens (list new items below)

<h3>Opens</h3>




* [Yesy] The Linux Foundation is looking for a way to collect data on the identity of individuals that attend the WG/SIGs without conflicting with any ethical or legal issues. The LF is establishing metrics on DEI representation in the WG/SIG groups for the business objectives and how best to solve any gaps of representation. Collecting a baseline so we can strategize on how to improve. Thoughts or Suggestions?
    * This should appear in the proposal in some form
    * Can be sourced from the mobilization plan
* DEI Office Hours 6/15 - recap and learnings?
    * Advice: Add a statement of code of conduct so everyone who is new is on the same page - including right to record.
* [WG Proposal](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1S6vbUglQb1sLLTrux3NDiME56ro0mj1ZyIuwLes5lbw/edit#heading=h.wsvc9lj3kh06) - “We need MVSR-style statements with definition around scope/tasks/etc for what we want to achieve.”
* DEI collaboration across LF orgs, ex: CNCF, FINOS (from Max) - early thoughts?
* [Yesy] Youtube Recordings - Meetings + Community Office Hours
    * Ping Khaleel (ops) on this.
    * Yes, we’d like these published on YouTube
* [Yesy] DEI Community outreach communication 
    * Reach out to DEI communities to join in on our conversation
    * Can wait on the proposal to come first as it will help with the language on the outreach.
* [Katherine] Follow up on SIG Journeys conversation/blog posts.
    * This can be discussed async
    * Can include testimonials from the DEI Office Hours attendees from mentees.

<h3>Meeting Notes</h3>




* There’s an opportunity to be a full SIG and collaborate with other DEI groups, ex: OASIS. We need to fill out the [proposal](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1S6vbUglQb1sLLTrux3NDiME56ro0mj1ZyIuwLes5lbw/edit#heading=h.wsvc9lj3kh06) for an upcoming TAC meeting.
* Let’s focus on the proposal right now to prepare for a meeting with the OpenSSF GM.
    * Key in on the strategy and what may justify investment.
    * Can start the issue in the Education SIG to be more open. Issue will link to the Google doc. Google doc content can then be moved to a TAC issue.
    * Action item: File a GitHub issue on Education SIG
    * TAC issue needs to be filed a week in advance of the TAC meeting. Next date is July 11th (CRob won’t be able to participate in that meeting but it can still be on deck). Let’s go for the July 25th meeting and aim to file the TAC issue on the 11th.

<h3>20230606</h3>


<h3>Attendees </h3>


(please **Mark your name in black if you are here,** or add-row name/email/affiliation if joining)


<table>
  <tr>
   <td><strong>Name</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Email</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Affiliation </strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Pronouns</strong>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Christine Abernathy*
   </td>
   <td>c.abernathy@f5.com
   </td>
   <td>F5 (Co-chair)
   </td>
   <td>she/her
   </td>
   <td>caabernathy
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Jay White*
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>Microsoft (co-chair)
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>CRob
   </td>
   <td>crob@intel.com
   </td>
   <td>Intel
   </td>
   <td>he/him
   </td>
   <td>SecurityCRob
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Katherine Druckman
   </td>
   <td>katherine.druckman@intel.com
   </td>
   <td>Intel
   </td>
   <td>she/her
   </td>
   <td>katherined
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Jennifer Bly
   </td>
   <td>jbly@linuxfoundation.org
   </td>
   <td>OpenSSF
   </td>
   <td>she/her
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
</table>


<h3>Agenda</h3>




* Welcome new friends
* Anyone willing to assist in scribing?
* Collect Opens (list new items below)

<h3>Opens</h3>




* Providing a SIG “Journey” for each OpenSSF group - recap from BEST WG Discussion
* Discussion around marketing - request from Sal in the last meeting
* Starting outreach to organizations on the [spreadsheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1dFy9TdoVY-xix2vU4KIbruMuu5HyTWmeyT49ubzqYgA/edit#gid=1407793392)

<h3>Meeting Notes</h3>




* Movement with DEI engagement with Open SSF onboarding activities being discussed within OpenSSF
    * Focus on website and marketing
        * Researching setting up blog posts and other marketing materials
        * Leveraging previous efforts from Sal’s activities shared during OpenSSF Day
* Spreadsheet outreach
    * Has a person who’s agreed to help updating the spreadsheet and another person is going to help and will start attending the meetings
        * Has an organization in mind that can help sponsor students at a conference. Conference is at the end of the year.
    * Nicole is looking to get the current spreadsheet filled out in July.
    * How do we partner with other organizations that can help fill out the information, in addition to those listed in the current sheet.
    * Alpha-Omega has created a web-crawler so that sites can self-register and be included in DEI efforts. This would make the information available in an open source way so no one group owns the data. Nicole suggests working on this before outreach to other contributors.
    * Steps to get to where we want to be:
        * Have a starter sheet with good representation amongst different groups
            * Targeting early July
        * Next, start the reach out with a good summary sheet that can be shared
        * Next, general reach out to places like GitHub and LinkedIn so people can check the info
        * Next, work on automation so the sheet doesn’t have to be manually updated. Could even be a good open source project, to ensure any automation metadata is secure.
    * A landing page for the information would be beneficial for the partnering organizations.
        * Highlighting a specific WG and their “SIG Journey” monthly would be a way to do this. Making it explicit to help onboard the specific persona would help. Editorial calendar [here](https://openssf.org/community/blog-guidelines/). An interview with specific questions can speed up this process.
            * **Action item: Katherine will give this some thought, and can asynchronously share this with the group. Christine is also willing to help and CRob to review/edit any copy generated.**
* Next DEI Office Hours is June 15 - Need Volunteers
    * Jay and Christine will be able to join, CRob the second half
    * This is a unique opportunity for people who are interested in open source or even what a career in cybersecurity looks like. How do we market this?
    * Question from Jennifer: Who are you trying to attract? How do you want to position it? I’m happy to help share on OpenSSF social channels.
        * Looking for diversity of thought, ideas, etc. Tap into current interests and what someone is already good at. Anyone who’s curious is welcome to participate.
        * CRob - is easier to attract people if there’s something tangible, like a blog where the Office Hours can also be discussed. We can use the OpenSSF Town Hall and/or the OpenSSF Day Panel for the upcoming office hours and the blog post for the next one.
        * **Action item: Jennifer to share upcoming office hours on social media**
* Upcoming [Intel event](https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/events/on-event-series/innovation.html) (combo internal and external on September 19-20) is looking for content. The DEI group would be a way to reach a broader audience.
    * All platforms are good platforms.
    * Suggest doing this as a panel. Need volunteers to be on the panel. Katherine, Jay, Christine are current volunteers.
        * **Action item: CRob can write up the CFP and share on Slack to look for volunteers**
* White House Office Hours are being extended. Are we still interested? Would need 3-4 people to be present in the call.
    * Waiting to hear about the definitive cut off date. Listening session should be through the summer, but needs to be confirmed.
    * When we share email, we need to provide availability.
    * **Action item: Nicole will update the session close on Slack**
    * **Action item: Christine to follow up with Sal to review the email**

<h3>20230523</h3>


<h3>Attendees </h3>


(please **Mark your name in black if you are here,** or add-row name/email/affiliation if joining)


<table>
  <tr>
   <td><strong>Name</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Email</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Affiliation </strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Pronouns</strong>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Christine Abernathy*
   </td>
   <td>c.abernathy@f5.com
   </td>
   <td>F5 (Co-chair)
   </td>
   <td>she/her
   </td>
   <td>caabernathy
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Sal Kimmich
   </td>
   <td>salkimmich@gmail.com
   </td>
   <td>EscherCloudAI
   </td>
   <td>they/them
   </td>
   <td>salkimmich
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Katherine Druckman
   </td>
   <td>katherine.druckman@intel.com
   </td>
   <td>Intel
   </td>
   <td>she/her
   </td>
   <td>katherined
   </td>
  </tr>
</table>


<h3>Agenda</h3>




* Welcome new friends
    * Katherine Druckman (Intel) 
* Anyone willing to assist in scribing?
* Collect Opens (list new items below)
    * OSS NA Last Week: Overview:
        * OpenSSF: seemed anemic
        * Having the DEI component inside of the security track (and not in the DEI track of the total conference, was good for engagement)
            * People focused on the thoughts, not on appearance, stories about professionals and their experiences 
            * OSS is really all about the hallway tracks 
                * Physical assets like flyers and printed schedules for very easy follow up to calls to action 
        * DEI is typically limited to specific demographics, but the inclusivity of THOUGHT is important. Focus more on similarities of experience, not on difference
    * Improvements for OSS EU
        * Ask the “Ask an Expert” for OSSF to focus on the DEI subcommittee 
        * Plan marketing/journalism strategy (like flyers at the diversity lunch)
* Last DEI Office Hours
    * Student showed up and is now in the Working Group SIG!
        * Might be good to get a blog post out on “Getting Started with OSSF” and make an easy onboarding experience into the working groups 
        * Next one is in 3 weeks (monthly)
* Action Items
    * University Outreach and Engagement
        * Draft blog post on getting involved as an employee and as a volunteer to the working groups (will OpenSSF Marketing share this?)
            * Corporate engagements will be more focused around the larger efforts around DEI and workflows in the Linux Foundation 
        * Roadmap: clearer strategy and mission communicated, and develop clear timelines for delivery 
    * Provide a SIG “Journey” for each OpenSSF group - but make sure that it’s clear where each type of contributor type fits best - OSPO contributor, individual corporate contributor, and volunteer contributor. 
        * There’s some arbitrary barriers (memberships) to get to the meetings, a diagram of engagement around OSSF projects would be great
            * New participants are experiencing major blockers in getting meaningfully engaged, even after signing up 
        * This may be a great focus for the next Town Hall
    * Sal will contact OpenSSF/Linux Marketing “SIG Journeys” - member outreach is their primary objective, and it’s a major dependency on getting engagement in the DEI SIG (would need published before mid-August), and see if they’ll join in on a discussion around marketing in our next meeting 
    * Sal to review the White House office hours [request email](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1G7RASDsVxn_00ozi6Qa5H7X4c6C5X6ZMVc_EMkdLKrY/edit#heading=h.ptmr18u5xnxj)
* White House office hours
    * Nicole made some suggestions and cut it down, but it probably needs further review - they are looking for people who are happy to discuss STEM
    * CRA section 4.2 has a nice section around education 

<h3>Opens</h3>




* Recap / Learnings: Open Source Summit NA
* Marketing our DEI Office Hours
* Starting outreach to organizations on the [spreadsheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1dFy9TdoVY-xix2vU4KIbruMuu5HyTWmeyT49ubzqYgA/edit#gid=1407793392)
* White House office hours? Link to proposed email [here](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1G7RASDsVxn_00ozi6Qa5H7X4c6C5X6ZMVc_EMkdLKrY/edit#heading=h.ptmr18u5xnxj)
* Any updates on up-leveling the DEI work into a SIG?

<h3>Meeting Notes</h3>




* 

<h3>20230425</h3>


<h3>Attendees </h3>


(please **Mark your name in black if you are here,** or add-row name/email/affiliation if joining)


<table>
  <tr>
   <td><strong>Name</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Email</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Affiliation </strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Pronouns</strong>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Christine Abernathy*
   </td>
   <td>c.abernathy@f5.com
   </td>
   <td>F5 (Co-chair)
   </td>
   <td>she/her
   </td>
   <td>caabernathy
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Jay White*
   </td>
   <td>jaywhite@microsoft.com
   </td>
   <td>Microsoft (co-chair)
   </td>
   <td>he/him
   </td>
   <td>camaleon2016
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>CRob
   </td>
   <td>crob@intel.com
   </td>
   <td>Intel
   </td>
   <td>he/him
   </td>
   <td>SecurityCRob
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Yesenia Yser
   </td>
   <td>yyser@linuxfoundation.org
   </td>
   <td>Linux Foundation
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>cyberjiujiteira
   </td>
  </tr>
</table>


<h3>Agenda</h3>




* Welcome new friends
* Anyone willing to assist in scribing?
* Collect Opens (list new items below)
* 	

<h3>Opens</h3>




* Recap of inaugural office hours held on April 20th
* Christine: Looking for review of [PR](https://github.com/ossf/education/pull/71) for education plan DEI modifications (section 3.13)
    * Main goal was to incorporate digital portfolio and mentorship items
    * Took opportunity to also add in the partner database building work
* Christine: FYI, [Cybersecurity DEI List](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1dFy9TdoVY-xix2vU4KIbruMuu5HyTWmeyT49ubzqYgA/edit#gid=1407793392) uploaded
* FYI, should we skip the next meeting due to Open Source Summit NA?
    * Add agenda item to Edu SIG for DEI repo (be completed before travels)
* Topics
    * Digital Portfolio
    * Applying for Scholarships / Mentorships / Internships

<h3>Meeting Notes</h3>




* Office Hours last week recap
    * What went well, what did we learn?
    * YY - it lasted the WHOLE hour!!  Participants seemed to get a lot out of it. 
    * YY - good intel on how to get started was shared
    * YY - structured agenda would be nice to help keep things going
    * YY - schedule of topics should be published to inform folks what will be covered
    * CA - what would be the next topics we’d like to talk about.  Next call would be after OSS-NA
    * Jay - 6 topics to rotate around
        * DEI - how to begin a career in tech
        * OSSF project intros/learning (inviting ossf folks to join us so THEY can learn about us)
        * Changing topic 
    * Crob - part of 6 topics, include speakers
        * Applying for scholarships and mentorships.
    * At OSS-NA - common questions, speakers, promote office hours and include folks from other working group
    * No pressure - cycle through topics
    * Advertise and recruit folks
    * Call to Action at the end of the meeting
* Contribution - education sig to redirect `help wanted` `good first issue` <add tag>
    * Crob - under education sig or create a new repo?
        * Jay - new repo +1 YY
        * ALLLLLLLL (both) “One list to rule them all”
    * Jay + Yesi are “Maintainer” on repo
* Nicole - Create an issue with the task to tackle for external contributors
    * New repo - README, “staged”

<h3>20230411</h3>


<h3>Attendees </h3>


(please **Mark your name in black if you are here,** or add-row name/email/affiliation if joining)


<table>
  <tr>
   <td><strong>Name</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Email</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Affiliation </strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Pronouns</strong>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Christine Abernathy*
   </td>
   <td>c.abernathy@f5.com
   </td>
   <td>F5 (Co-chair)
   </td>
   <td>she/her
   </td>
   <td>caabernathy
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Jay White*
   </td>
   <td>jaywhite@microsoft.com
   </td>
   <td>Microsoft (co-chair)
   </td>
   <td>he/him
   </td>
   <td>camaleon2016
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>CRob
   </td>
   <td>crob@intel.com
   </td>
   <td>Intel
   </td>
   <td>he/him
   </td>
   <td>SecurityCRob
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Yesenia Yser
   </td>
   <td>yyser@linuxfoundation.org
   </td>
   <td>Linux Foundation
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>cyberjiujiteira
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Amanda Martin
   </td>
   <td>amartin@linuxfoudnation.org
   </td>
   <td>Linux Foundation
   </td>
   <td>she/her
   </td>
   <td>hythloda
   </td>
  </tr>
</table>


<h3>Agenda</h3>




* Welcome new friends
* Anyone willing to assist in scribing?
* Collect Opens (list new items below)
* [OSS EU CFP open until May](https://events.linuxfoundation.org/open-source-summit-europe/program/cfp/) (OpenSSF Day CFP will be opening soon) - DEI talks?
* [Christine] [Recreated](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1HRsTcxSJ9Vb97ow6vPPGxgN2ICf3f5I5wFngQ6a71ic/edit#gid=0) parts of Nicole’s spreadsheet to add more organizations. Looking to merge content.
* [Education mobilization plan](https://github.com/ossf/education/tree/main/plan): any roadmap focus areas based on work thus far?

<h3>Opens</h3>




* Mentorship application is open for Alpha-Omega. Please share. 
    * https://mentorship.lfx.linuxfoundation.org/project/4df8fab8-e11a-4877-8140-c3633099ea24
* Alpha-Omega University Program
    * Outline: 
    * Purdues VIP Team Fall Project
        * 
    * University for Winter term (January)
* [Christine] DEI Office Hours
* <add new>

<h3>Meeting Notes</h3>




* Nicole has shared an updated spreadsheet
    * OMB is revisiting some of the underrepresented group names
    * Would like to add a Training tab later on, but may not make the first cut.
    * Will share latest sheet in Slack (shared with Christine)
    * Christine to upload the version of the sheet to Google docs (probably reuse the same [link](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1HRsTcxSJ9Vb97ow6vPPGxgN2ICf3f5I5wFngQ6a71ic/edit#gid=0))
    * Yesenia can also help update the spreadsheet
    * Question on adding contacts to sheet - will keep any of that info internal for privacy reasons
* Things we could put in the plan: portfolio review and mentorship. 
    * Christine: file a PR for this and add it to the education plan
* Mentorship is open, share in your circles.
    * Would love a review on the document
* Alpha-Omega University Program is still slated for the Fall. Would like an intro to another university for January.
* DEI Office Hours: monthly was the plan and can do a one-off. Week of April 17th could be a bad week. April 19th and 24th would be good.
    * To get this out would need a date/time, a write-up
    * Thursday 20th between 11 AM -3 PM ET is good for Yesenia - we can do this around that time
    * Can record and share out
* White House STEM strategy is being redone. The current discussion is heavily skewed towards academia and is looking for input from other professionals.
    * Are setting up open houses. We can contribute 3 topics/bullet points that we can share.
    * Nicole to share an email she received to action on.
    * STEM professionals retained (?)
        * Foundation materials - open to the public training
        * Digital Portfolio
        * Communities / Networking / Mentorship
    * If we respond to the email within the next 2 weeks, we should be ok to request a May office hours session.

<h3>20230328</h3>


<h3>Attendees </h3>


(please **Mark your name in black if you are here,** or add-row name/email/affiliation if joining)


<table>
  <tr>
   <td><strong>Name</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Email</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Affiliation </strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Pronouns</strong>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Christine Abernathy*
   </td>
   <td>c.abernathy@f5.com
   </td>
   <td>F5 (Co-chair)
   </td>
   <td>she/her
   </td>
   <td>caabernathy
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Jay White*
   </td>
   <td>jaywhite@microsoft.com
   </td>
   <td>Microsoft (co-chair)
   </td>
   <td>he/him
   </td>
   <td>camaleon2016
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>CRob
   </td>
   <td>crob@intel.com
   </td>
   <td>Intel
   </td>
   <td>he/him
   </td>
   <td>SecurityCRob
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Yesenia Yser
   </td>
   <td>yyser@linuxfoundation.org
   </td>
   <td>Linux Foundation
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>cyberjiujiteira
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Sal Kimmich
   </td>
   <td>salkimmich@gmail.com
   </td>
   <td>EscherCloudAI
   </td>
   <td>they/them
   </td>
   <td>salkimmich
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Amanda Martin
   </td>
   <td>amartin@linuxfoudnation.org
   </td>
   <td>Linux Foundation
   </td>
   <td>she/her
   </td>
   <td>hythloda
   </td>
  </tr>
</table>


<h3>Agenda</h3>




* Welcome new friends
    * Amanda Martin - LF
* Anyone willing to assist in scribing?
* Collect Opens (list new items below)
*  

<h3>Opens</h3>




* OpenSSF Town Hall reflections
* Open Source Summit NA lightning talk decision
* OpenSSF Day talk submissions

<h3>Meeting Notes</h3>




* OSSF Townhall where Christine & Jay presented.  Any feedback?
    * Jay - had a few follow-ups.  Global Cyber Alliance reached out to him
        * Will talk & see if they want to come and present to the subcommittee   
        * Still researching who they are, how they are funded, etc. 
* OSSF Day will be Weds May 10th
* Sal - BoF 1hr chat approved for OSSF Day OSS-NA (huzzah)!!
    * Sal will setup questions & arrange a meeting with participants to ensure we are in agreement with what we’re focusing on and what we plan to cover in the call.  Wants to have action statements to walk away with  
* Christine-Jay talk is on the wait list - 5min lightning talk on Tuesday
* Group is eager to start progress on Nichole’s xls once we re-establish contact with her
* Alpha-Omega 
    * Fall term - University Project
        * 
        * Purdue and UT Dallas
            * Sal suggests to reach out to SACNAS @ UT (largest org of Latina and Native American focused on STEM careers)
    * Summer Mentorship
        * 4 PAID positions, 12 week program
            * Includes access to Bsides/DefCon in Vegas
            * 2 folks to work with Yesi on A-O tooling, 2 with Jonathan
            * Goes live 10april, send applicants to Yesi beforehand
* This group could create a regular “Office Hours” meeting targeted towards our DEI goals and objectives.  Ask us anything, portfolio building, interviewing, etc.
    * Monthly cadence to start; consider two calls one EU-friendly one APAC-friendly
    * @CRob - will make a gdoc to start hashing out topics/participants; also talk to jbly to get assistance within amplifying
    * Target “for developers”, “for ospo’s” through our DEI lens
    * 1st one after Yesi’s internship opens up & A&O
    * Setup a doodle to find agreeable times
        * Target: Week 10 april for A&O
    * Avoid 17-april - 21st (kubecon)
    * Talk to Marta about lessons-learned from Critical Projects office hours

<h3>20230314</h3>


<h3>Attendees </h3>


(please **Mark your name in black if you are here,** or add-row name/email/affiliation if joining)


<table>
  <tr>
   <td><strong>Name</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Email</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Affiliation </strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Pronouns</strong>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Christine Abernathy*
   </td>
   <td>c.abernathy@f5.com
   </td>
   <td>F5 (Co-chair)
   </td>
   <td>she/her
   </td>
   <td>caabernathy
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Jay White*
   </td>
   <td>jaywhite@microsoft.com
   </td>
   <td>Microsoft (co-chair)
   </td>
   <td>he/him
   </td>
   <td>camaleon2016
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>CRob
   </td>
   <td>crob@intel.com
   </td>
   <td>Intel
   </td>
   <td>he/him
   </td>
   <td>SecurityCRob
   </td>
  </tr>
</table>


<h3>Agenda</h3>




* Welcome new friends
* Anyone willing to assist in scribing?
* Collect Opens (list new items below)

<h3>Opens (pending)</h3>




* OpenSSF Town Hall on March 16th - feedback on [outline](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1VF8VYH98rbk-QHmY_46FLssaRusaGADzUuG6kpWCY2A/edit?usp=sharing)
* _Building a More Inclusive Open Source Security Community through Education_ - Open Source Summit NA talk accepted. Yay!
* OpenSSF CFP due this Friday, March 17 - draft CFPs [here](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1f7oeP-FuYDa0OQSGR66c8iH--Za1GdMbPKZi3IUQgcM/edit)
    * Jay and Christine can rehash the Town Hall session for Talk 1
    * Anyone interested in taking up Talk 2? 
* Project Updates:
    * DEI organizations in security list

<h3>Meeting Notes</h3>




* Town Hall presentation
    * Want to zero in on the spreadsheet to phrase the larger initiative we want to go towards (DEI SIG)
    * Call-to-action, at the bottom or the middle of the slide?
    * Suggest, three bullet points:
        * Benefit to doing this
        * Risk of not doing this
        * Call-to-action with a submission form and a deadline
    * May want to be careful about highlighting risk and may want to zero in on the current efforts going on, i.e. the spreadsheet and the gaps. This may take the pressure off folks to participate.
    * Two slides with a specific CTA for leadership
        * We’ve already shown a clear deficit and put in volunteer time on this.
        * Training, outreach, hiring will be affected by not tackling this - LF should see this.
        * We need a quantitative approach to this. Let’s get numbers behind this risk.
* What data do we need to show why diversity is important?
    * Contractors are where diversity is higher but in private companies they may be low-balled. If we want to look at the cybersecurity workforce we need to address and collect statistics on this.
    * Contractors are also the first to be let go.
    * An interesting metric we may want to think about could be converting those contractors into FTEs w/ benefits, titles, (ideally) higher-pay.
    * There also need to be consideration for how resumes are processed (AI Bot that are developed with the current workforce in mind)
    * These points can be addressed in the Open Source Summit.
* We may organize a community meeting as a side event at the Open Source Summit. The Education group may not be able to solve this but we could talk about this and perhaps involve the LF AI group in the discussion. We could sit in on their conference talks and invite them to a discussion.
* ISCC did a study that we can look at for stats.
* We have to measure statistics differently because we’ll have to reach a diverse group that hasn’t traditionally been reached before.
* Partnerships with the organizations we’re targeting do collect data so this is another reason to focus on that.
* What three data points do we want to look at? Sal dropped suggestions in the outline.
* Sal met an artist, a college student who put together a rendition based on security data. Will share the GitHub info on Slack. A talk has been accepted at OSS and could perhaps do a lightning talk at OpenSSF Day.
* Sal - can I be in charge of the social at OSSNA? Yes!
* Sal will submit a Birds of a Feather style talk for Talk 2 on OpenSSF Day around hiring and stats.
* Action items
    * [Nicole] will upload the list to Slack for the presentation slides
    * [Christine] will create Town Hall slides based on the outline
    * [Sal] will put in an OpenSSF Day CFP for a talk around hiring and stats
    * [Christine] will put in an OpenSSF Day CFP, a rehash of the Town Hall talk

<h3>20230228</h3>


<h3>Attendees </h3>


(please **Mark your name in black if you are here,** or add-row name/email/affiliation if joining)


<table>
  <tr>
   <td><strong>Name</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Email</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Affiliation </strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Pronouns</strong>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Christine Abernathy*
   </td>
   <td>c.abernathy@f5.com
   </td>
   <td>F5 (Co-chair)
   </td>
   <td>she/her
   </td>
   <td>caabernathy
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Jay White*
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>Microsoft (co-chair)
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>CRob
   </td>
   <td>crob@intel.com
   </td>
   <td>Intel
   </td>
   <td>he/him
   </td>
   <td>SecurityCRob
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Max Mizzi
   </td>
   <td>max@majorleaguehacking.com
   </td>
   <td>MLH
   </td>
   <td>he/him
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Sal Kimmich
   </td>
   <td>salkimmich@gmail.com
   </td>
   <td>EscherCloudAI
   </td>
   <td>they/them
   </td>
   <td>salkimmich
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
</table>


<h3>Agenda</h3>




* Welcome new friends
* Anyone willing to assist in scribing? 
* Collect Opens (list new items below)
*  Upcoming TAC elections:
    * **Voter Eligibility (Electorate) Self-Nomination Process**
        * Any contributor to OpenSSF working groups or initiatives is eligible to participate in the election. Valid contributions include: commits or submitted pull requests via Github; public edits or comments on Google docs or other work products associated with OpenSSF; posting messages to any mailing list or on Slack; and beyond that any other form of positive engagement with OpenSSF activities. The form asks you for an example of your contributions; this is merely to make it easier for election observers and OpenSSF staff to validate. If you have in any way been involved in or care about OpenSSF, but are in doubt as to whether your contribution “counts”, please fill it out anyways, and we will follow up.
        * Deadline: March 12, 2023
        * [Voter Eligibility Self-Nomination Form](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSdgQdwnRH5nMLkYUDhuM7LYxUynairprGc_xAPIZm9SGaytfg/viewform?usp=sf_link)
    * **TAC Self-Nomination Process**
        * The OpenSSF Technical Advisory Council (TAC) is composed of seven total individuals, four of whom are elected annually. If you are interested in serving on the TAC, and qualify as an eligible voter as above, please complete the self-nomination form below,
        * Deadline: March 12, 2023
        * [TAC Candidate Self-Nomination Form](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSdn91eLxfVYwiDw4OrAw3lSYVPVqOkcTJl2VzX07Q7idONefQ/viewform?usp=sf_link) 
    * **SCIR Self-Nomination Information and Process**
        * [Since early in its existence](https://openssf.org/blog/2020/10/07/openssf-seeks-security-community-individual-representative-for-governing-board/), the OpenSSF Governing Board has sought to ensure it gets adequate input from voices in the software security community who would otherwise not be at the table. We seek candidates for the Security Community Individual Representative (SCIR) who can represent those voices, while also being a subject matter expert in the field with their own set of perspectives. Familiarity with the different OpenSSF working groups and projects, and being able to dedicate the time to be sufficiently informed on the issues that arise in our monthly calls and ongoing discussions, is highly desired. It is also highly desired, but not required, that the SCIR be a contributor and thus eligible to vote in the election. 
        * Deadline: March 12, 2022
        * [SCIR Candidate Self-Nomination Form](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSfsbVO1wMfEXZNJmYqjm2ND929HHYgwGrNu-uRifV5xwszLCw/viewform?usp=sf_link)

        The Election Process will be monitored by Election Officials (volunteers identified by the TAC). At the conclusion of the validation period, Election Officials will publish the complete list of candidates.

* Begin of overall election process: February 27
* TAC Self-Nomination Period: February 27 - March 12 (2 weeks)
* SCIR Self-Nomination Period: February 27 - March 12 (2 weeks)
* Voter Ballot Request Period: February 27 - March 12 (2 weeks)
* Validation Period: March 13 - March 19 (1 week)
* Nominees Announced: March 20
* Voting Period: March 20 - April 2 (2 weeks)
* Announcement of election results: April 3

Official time commitment for the TAC:  about 1 hour every other week, 2 hours a week in general. 

SCIR is a bigger commitment because you have to participate in board element.s 

<h3>Opens (pending)</h3>




* OpenSSF Day - CFP due March 17
* Review objectives outlined in 
    * Frame up our overall mission statement?
    * Move items into [Kanban board](https://github.com/orgs/ossf/projects/14/views/1)
* OpenSSF Town Hall on March 16th - feedback on [outline](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1VF8VYH98rbk-QHmY_46FLssaRusaGADzUuG6kpWCY2A/edit?usp=sharing)

<h3>Meeting Notes</h3>




* Time requirements for each OSSF position:	
    * Official time commitment for the TAC:  about 1 hour every other week, 2 hours a week in general. 
    * SCIR is a bigger commitment because you have to participate in board elements 
* Nicole has developed a first and comprehensive list of the DEI organizations in security 
    * Next steps are to make this openly accessible, review, then create an input form for new entities to share their programs (Nicole will share, Sal will refactor) 
* Need to develop a mission statement and key metrics under that aim 
    * To be able to be an effective resource to the foundation, we will aim to help to centralize the working group of DEI as a core pillar of work. 
    * Tentative, “Our mission is to onramp and integrate a DEI SIG to support the specific components represented in our key objectives and efforts”. 
        * We’ve realized that to achieve our central goal and mission, we would need to engage across the foundation - the core function of DEI must be driven centrally to the organization 
        * Must answer the question: why do we need another working group? This will need to be raised to the TAC, and can be done simply if we have the following elements:
            * CRob will investigate and report this to the slack by end of week
            * May have a session to fill this documentation out - Thursday/Friday this week 
* Prepping for the town call: 
    * 

<h3>20230214</h3>


<h3>Attendees </h3>


(please **Mark your name in black if you are here,** or add-row name/email/affiliation if joining)


<table>
  <tr>
   <td><strong>Name</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Email</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Affiliation </strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Pronouns</strong>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Christine Abernathy*
   </td>
   <td>c.abernathy@f5.com
   </td>
   <td>F5 (Co-chair)
   </td>
   <td>she/her
   </td>
   <td>caabernathy
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Jay White*
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>Microsoft (co-chair)
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Yesenia Yser
   </td>
   <td>yyser@linuxfoundation.org
   </td>
   <td>Linux Foundation
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>cyberjiujiteira
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Max Mizzi
   </td>
   <td>max@majorleaguehacking.com
   </td>
   <td>MLH
   </td>
   <td>he/him
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Sal Kimmich
   </td>
   <td>salkimmich@gmail.com
   </td>
   <td>EscherCloudAI
   </td>
   <td>they/them
   </td>
   <td>salkimmich
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
</table>


<h3>Agenda</h3>




* Welcome new friends
* Anyone willing to assist in scribing? - Christine
* Collect Opens (list new items below)

<h3>Opens (pending)</h3>




* CRob - regrets for today, conflict with CDF TOC call
* Kanban board - [https://github.com/orgs/ossf/projects/14](https://github.com/orgs/ossf/projects/14) 
* Feedback Roadmap (from Max Mizzi) - 
* OpenSSF Town Hall (March 16th) and OpenSSF Day (May 10) - should we present? Topics?
* Nicole - List of organizations

<h3>Meeting Notes</h3>




* Town Hall is important
    * Town Hall is an opportunity to speak about what’s going on across the OpenSSF
    * Working group leads can propose
    * We should put together a title so we’re ready when the CFP comes out
    * Elevator pitch is an opportunity to get others to join this effort.
    * We have about 15 minutes.
* OpenSSF Day is also an excellent opportunity
    * Opened up with DEI last year. It would be an excellent opportunity to highlight what’s happened.
    * The stage could allow us to expand beyond the subcommittee level
    * State of Open Source Con was run by lawyers and provided a diverse perspective. 
    * Two talks - 1) what we’re doing in the OpenSSF and 2) one that reflects on DEI and stats based on what’s going on broadly in the LF
    * A broader talk could be a launchpad for the DEI to work more broadly across the the LF
    * Second pillar of the education plan has a part related to pre- and post- hiring statistics. We could ask the LF to have some emphasis on diversity and hiring statistics. This should include retention stats. This would help open up the conversation with LF. It’s a clear ask, and can provide real R&D as we move important.
    * Let’s think about being a little more provocative to understand what’s currently being done across OpenSSF and LF on what’s being done. There’s content on the website, but it's hard to find investment in programs to back this up. Suggest we reach up to people in leadership positions to understand what’s actually being done.
    * There are many projects going on within the LF and some have DEI aspects. How are these reported?
    * It’s hard to get diversity stats on developers but can likely get this via hiring stats.
    * LF can’t get the stats but other foundations like Python Foundation can get this.
    * Who’s keeping the DEI stats within the LF? It’s unclear if there’s one entity. Perhaps we can connect with Hilary Carter and she may be able to help. Hilary and Jessica (?) created [a report](https://www.linuxfoundation.org/research/the-2021-linux-foundation-report-on-diversity-equity-and-inclusion-in-open-source) and this can give us info of what they can resource internally.
    * Brian Behlendorf gave a keynote in State of Open Source Con and is ready to give more attention to security worldwide
* Open Summit CFP was submitted
* List of organizations to partner with:
    * Needs some clarification on what to collect
    * Which underrepresented groups are we interested in? Only in the US or worldwide?
    * Linux Foundation is overly represented in the US in its leadership, but has global aims.
    * Current list was US-centric and had - veterans, differently-abled, racially underrepresented (varies by country)
    * Others include - gender, LBGTQ, neurodiversity
    * What is the scope, and what is the priority of coverage in the first 2 years?
        * Groups: can pull from some of the contacts surfaced in the [OSSF education plan ](https://github.com/ossf/education/blob/main/plan/3.0%20Reward%20and%20Incentivize%20Developers%20and%20Maintainers.md)
    * Should make a broader list and then prioritize who we want to engage with initially according to where the highest impact is.
    * Found that there isn’t one comprehensive list that covers everyone. Has found something on LinkedIn. Is looking to have at least one partnership opportunity in each group.
    * Another thing found when looking at partnerships is the maturity of organization. Is trying to outline this as well. Some are just getting off the ground and others are clear on what they have.
    * Question: What’s our threshold? Are we looking for the size of the organization? Are we looking at partnerships they already have?
    * Look at who we can get in contact with and who will show up on the table.
    * Has a separate sheet related to conferences and more information about the groups.
    * Looking to have the list later in the week.
    * Sal - propose putting the list out and hitting up LinkedIn for experts who can fill out missing information, ex: related to Neurodiversity. Suggest not spending more than 2 more hours of this.
* Colleges and Alpha-Omega Pilot
    * Getting the portal up and running for folks to use
    * Is reaching out to professors to help
    * Call-to-action: if there are any universities we know to partner with, let Yesenia know. Looking to do a pilot with 1-2 universities.
    * Is starting to design the process in March and would like to finalize with universities in the summer for a fall launch.
    * Nicole, I’m targeting underrepresented universities. Any other suggestions appreciated
        * Current - (South Florida) FIU and UM is mostly latinos; Universities with Computer Science and/or cyber security programs
* Slides roadmap
    * Put down thoughts from the first call
    * We should tie the slides up in another call where we talk about higher mission stuff
    * We can then tie up what we’re doing in the Kanban board to the higher strategic objectives for the year that will be highlighted in the [slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1uDKwZKrrVEbSSGrLwhglCzvAXcKIKOk78Tw9r6ccmHU/edit#slide=id.p)

<h3>Action Items</h3>




* [Sal] Think about the questions / [current  stats for LF](https://www.linuxfoundation.org/research/the-2021-linux-foundation-report-on-diversity-equity-and-inclusion-in-open-source).
* [Christine / Jay] Talk to Brian but couch it in terms of submitting a talk for OpenSSF to get data and information on gaps in investment - 
* [Sal] Go through the latest [DEI report](https://www.linuxfoundation.org/research/the-2021-linux-foundation-report-on-diversity-equity-and-inclusion-in-open-source) and see if there are any stats that are missing.
* [Nicole] Reach out to SMEs on LinkedIn to help filling out the list of organizations spreadsheet
* [Everyone] Recommend list of universities for the Alpha-Omega pilot
    * [Yesenia] Weekly drop ask - any additional colleges (building out list of colleges/universities)
* [Everyone] Drop [roadmap](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1uDKwZKrrVEbSSGrLwhglCzvAXcKIKOk78Tw9r6ccmHU/edit#slide=id.p) feedback before the next meeting

<h3>20230131</h3>


<h3>Attendees </h3>


(please **Mark your name in black if you are here,** or add-row name/email/affiliation if joining)


<table>
  <tr>
   <td><strong>Name</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Email</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Affiliation </strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Pronouns</strong>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Jay White*
   </td>
   <td><a href="mailto:Jaywhite@microsoft.com">Jaywhite@microsoft.com</a> 
   </td>
   <td>Microsoft (co-chair)
   </td>
   <td>He/him
   </td>
   <td>Camaleon2016 
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>CRob
   </td>
   <td>crob@intel.com
   </td>
   <td>Intel
   </td>
   <td>he/him
   </td>
   <td>SecurityCRob
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Avishay Balter
   </td>
   <td>avbalter@microsoft.com
   </td>
   <td>Microsoft
   </td>
   <td>he/him
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
</table>


<h3>Agenda</h3>




* Welcome new friends
* Anyone willing to assist in scribing?
* Collect Opens (list new items below)

<h3>Opens (pending)</h3>




* Review Birds of a Feather talk proposal ([doc](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Dwm3nrNrToDJ-Dfv7qLheOYvzmzsDVSKxM6AyAFJjn8/edit)).
    * Anyone else want to co-facilitate?
* Previous action items:
    * Putting together a list of DEI partner organizations and contacts
* Zero in on short- and mid- term items from the last meeting
* Short-term (30 days)
    * OSS NA talks
    * Audience: Identify partnerships and communities to work with
    * Outreach: Create a market plan to reach our audience
* Mid-term (60 days)
    * Incorporate target audience feedback into our plans
    * Recruit community groups from the target audience to join the subcommittee 
    * Plan for upcoming funding cycles (which 2-3 projects will need funding?)

<h3>Meeting Notes</h3>




* Nicole will get the list ready by tomorrow.
* BoF @ OSS-NA - seeking feedback on abstract (crob notes it may be a bit too long, may need to trim)
    * Is anyone planning on going to the OSS-NA show, and willing to participate
* Nichole will share the DEI partner org list in Slack channel once it is complete so that others can share.
* Short & Midterm goals we want to work on in 2023 (start with 30 & 60 days goals)
    * Cfp will be submitted to OSS-NA
    * Will wait to hear about OSSF day at the summit; if so we’ll reach out to Jenn Bly to arrange
    * OSSF has a townhall coming up; this committee could get speaking time there.  @CRob reach out to JBly for timing

        Shortterm outreach  

        * Nichole - which groups are we targeting? We’re focusing on younger audiences, correct? 
        * CRob - we can have our own list, we can change the Plan list, whatever the team has people, energy, & interest to work on
        * Jay - we are in a unique position.  Agrees with younger focus, and as we target older groups we can tailor content/add more complex topics.  
        * Christine - some content may not be ready yet (e.g. high schooler-appropriate materials)
        * Nichole - we talk a lot about college.  She sees three main groups in the plan atm: high school & below, college, and grown folks.  Suggests starting at college and up at first. Christine notes as we have completed material for those groups we can adjust for the younger folks.
        * Christine - what conferences do we want to attend to engage with our target audience?  @CRob share list of security conferences for team to evaluate. Someone shared list of academic conferences we can review too.  Nichole notes BSides - we could spread out and pick up those conferences
        * Marketing content development (we can get Jenn Bly from LF, CRob can assist)
        * Yesennia (LF/Alpha-Omega) had talked about A-O potentially putting something together around this
        * Nichole notes there other mentoring efforts, we should try to align/join forces with them.  Christine - we can show up to other WGs/SIGs to self-promote this group.  Possibly reuse townhall slides and visit other groups to gather more supporters
    * Midterm outreach
        * CRob suggests reaching out inside our companies to find folks willing/interested in mentoring
        * Nichole - once we get list of “resources” (like mentors, a-o project, etc) we can fold that back into our marketing/outreach materials
    * Christine - we should put some names to some of these great ideas
        * Crob will reach out to ossf ops to get a kanban board setup so we can start laying out our “projects”

<h3>20230117</h3>


<h3>Attendees </h3>


(please **Mark your name in black if you are here,** or add-row name/email/affiliation if joining)


<table>
  <tr>
   <td><strong>Name</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Email</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Affiliation </strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Pronouns</strong>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Jay White*
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>Microsoft (co-chair)
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>CRob
   </td>
   <td>crob@intel.com
   </td>
   <td>Intel
   </td>
   <td>he/him
   </td>
   <td>SecurityCRob
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Yesenia Yser
   </td>
   <td>yyser@linuxfoundation.org
   </td>
   <td>Linux Foundation
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>cyberjiujiteira
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Max Mizzi
   </td>
   <td>max@majorleaguehacking.com
   </td>
   <td>MLH
   </td>
   <td>he/him
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Avishay Balter
   </td>
   <td>avbalter@microsoft.com
   </td>
   <td>Microsoft
   </td>
   <td>he/him
   </td>
   <td>balteravishay
   </td>
  </tr>
</table>


<h3>Agenda</h3>




* Welcome new friends
* Anyone willing to assist in scribing?
* Collect Opens (list new items below)
* Level setting our work/goals as we officially kick off.
    * What items would you like to see us tackle? In 2023?

<h3>Opens (pending)</h3>




* Discuss ‘terms of reference’ for committee (why formed / purpose, objectives, activities, “reporting”)
    * EDU.SIG plan - [https://github.com/ossf/education/tree/main/plan](https://github.com/ossf/education/tree/main/plan) 
* Any interest in putting together some CFPs for OSS-NA conference?
    * OSS-NA CFP May 10-12 In Vancouver, CA (CFP Closes 2/5/23)
        * [https://events.linuxfoundation.org/open-source-summit-north-america/program/cfp/?utm_content=232605818&utm_medium=social&utm_source=linkedin&hss_channel=lcp-76521837#overview](https://events.linuxfoundation.org/open-source-summit-north-america/program/cfp/?utm_content=232605818&utm_medium=social&utm_source=linkedin&hss_channel=lcp-76521837#overview) 

<h3>Meeting Notes</h3>




* This is the official kick off of this committee, for this year, and in general.
* Education SIG was formed last year to fulfill the education stream (stream 1) of the mobilization plan.
* What can be leveraged from existing LF content and frameworks to provide the education plan to under-represented communities.
    * Daniela and Hart from Hyperledger have done a bunch of work with academics. Here's the main project landing page for this: [https://www.hyperledger.org/participate/academic](https://www.hyperledger.org/participate/academic)
        * [https://github.com/hyperledger-labs/university-course](https://github.com/hyperledger-labs/university-course)
    * [https://github.com/cncf/mentoring](https://github.com/cncf/mentoring)
    * LF support -> only slack
    * Work towards speaking at academic conferences (i.e.,)
        * [https://infosec-conferences.com/category/academic/](https://infosec-conferences.com/category/academic/)
    * Gap to be filled:
        *  LF wide academy engagement 
            * (framework / contact - talking to OpenSSF + Universities)
        * Communication between maintainers and researchers
            * Create a pipeline process + creating that community
* Previous meeting action items:
    * What were the gaps
    * What are the existing LF activities that target under-represented communities.
* Here’s the general landing page for LF Diversity: [https://www.linuxfoundation.org/about/diversity-inclusivity](https://www.linuxfoundation.org/about/diversity-inclusivity) 
    * Survey / feedback from conference participants to get information
    * Topic for these summit 
* A framing that was used last year is that training and education material is great, but there is a need to make the process before and after the training more clear. How do people get to the material, how they would reach out to the industry after they were trained, etc. thinking about the education process end to end, reaching out to people and helping them build their careers.
* Getting the support of OOSF leaders for the DEI education scenarios is important
* Reaching out to the OSSF maintaining organizations to carve out specific DEI sponsorships for security education 
    * Helping industry new-comers with interviews, training, mentorships, building digital portfolio, etc.
    * Recognizing members for providing those
* Having more organizations such as code 20/40, girls who code and more join our education DEI calls to 
    * List:
        * BlacksGirl Hack
        * Latinas In Cyber
        * Latinas In Tech
        * VetSec
        * Haitians in Tech (AfroTech Conference - Aug?)
        * RaicesCyberOrg (conference - Sept)
        * LGBTQ+ community 
        * WOMCY – LATAM Women in Cybersecurity
        * Code 20/40
        * Girls Who Code
        * AnitaB
        * Diana Initiative
        * Grace Hopper (Conference in Sept)
        * WiCys (Conference in March)
    * **Action item:** Make a list and reach out to such organizations
* The focus of this group is thinking about people who are currently **not** represented in the cyber security world and how they can and will access the OSSF materials.
    * The group agrees that having aggressive timelines to target more underrepresented communities (i.e. by next year) would be helpful.
* We should consider how to get applicants aware and interested in the plans of the education and DEI SIGs. going first through training etc and mentorship and portfolio building later.
    * Material should align to what people are looking for and what could help them get their next job in the industry.
    * Assessments that link to the different communities and their existing material and content.
* Before starting to talk to specific universities we should consider what are the 3-5 bullet points that we want to target.
* 30 (short-term)
    * CFP Feb 7 - OSS Summit deadline
        * A/I: Craft topic talk: Two proposal 
            * DEI sub-committee : plan, who we are
            * Birds of feather - feedback (what people expect from this group) / survey / type of interest (and recruitment to this group)
        * Data: [Linux Foundation Research of DEI - Dec 11](https://www.linuxfoundation.org/research/the-2021-linux-foundation-report-on-diversity-equity-and-inclusion-in-open-source)
    * Identify universities, partners, communities to work with (soft skills, interview prep, etc)
    * Create the plan with marketing to reach the audience
* 60 (mid-term)
    * Feedback into the plan around activities 
    * Get community groups (i.e., Girls Who Code) into this call
    * Plan the upcoming needed funding cycles
        * Lay out two or three projects that will require funding later this year 
* 90/180 (long-term)
    * “Not-employed” resource group
        * Job boards, access to mentorships, conferences, etc. for people who are currently not employed. (as opposed to corporate-based RGs)
    * Submission deadline for OSS 
    * getting fundings to get DEI students to the conferences so that they get closer to the maintainers and the open-source community.
        * Some existing conferences already have carved out invitees for schools and students to meet such criteria.
* Even longer… end goals:
    * Get people from URGs contributing to key open source projects
    * Get people from URGs into  Junior App Sec jobs 

<h3>20221215</h3>


<h3>Attendees </h3>


(please **Mark your name in black if you are here,** or add-row name/email/affiliation if joining)


<table>
  <tr>
   <td><strong>Name</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Email</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Affiliation </strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Pronouns</strong>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Christine Abernathy
   </td>
   <td>c.abernathy@f5.com
   </td>
   <td>F5 (Co-chair)
   </td>
   <td>she/her
   </td>
   <td>caabernathy
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Jay White
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>Microsoft (co-chair)
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>CRob
   </td>
   <td>crob@intel.com
   </td>
   <td>Intel
   </td>
   <td>he/him
   </td>
   <td>SecurityCRob
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Kay XiongPachay
   </td>
   <td>kay.xiongpachay@gs.com
   </td>
   <td>Goldman Sachs
   </td>
   <td>she/her
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Yesenia Yser
   </td>
   <td>yyser@linuxfoundation.org
   </td>
   <td>Linux Foundation
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>cyberjiujiteira
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Max Mizzi
   </td>
   <td>max@majorleaguehacking.com
   </td>
   <td>MLH
   </td>
   <td>he/him
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
</table>


<h3>Agenda</h3>




* Welcome new friends
* Anyone willing to assist in scribing?
* Collect Opens
* Review Education SIG plan

<h3>Opens (pending)</h3>




* CRob - regrets - double-booked for this time; very excited to participate in the future!
* Review OpenSSF Education SIG [plan](https://github.com/ossf/education/tree/main/plan)
* Time slots for recurring meetings in 2023

<h3>Meeting Notes</h3>




* What are the existing LF initiatives? Can we leverage those initiatives?
    * AR: Yesenia can look into this.
* What would our results or outcomes look like with HBCUs, HSIs? What does the ROI look like for the students? It would be good to take a bottoms-up approach.
* We should look at existing partnerships and gaps. What is the unique value we would bring?
    * Mentorship - consistency
* Organizations that come in to help institutions need to think through the value they bring. Programs are set up but when it's time to get employment opportunities, these do not translate. Equal and equitable playing fields is key.
* A beneficial partnership is partnerships that help with mentorship. Wouldn't know where to go or where to start. Having a set of partners that drive mentorship conversations. Interview writing, negotiation, is where people can struggle due to lack of resources or lack of knowledge around how they are branding themselves, ex: Women in Cybersecurity.
* Role models should also be available.
* Which audience is this subcommittee targeting? Looks like this is starting with college students. Current state is targeting higher education but in the future we can look at places that feed into those institutions.
* HBCUs engineering schools tend to have strong professional development programs, like resume-writing and interview prep.
* Having exposure to the newest technologies will help and this is where mentorship and industry experience also helps.
    * Alpha-Omega is putting together a program that focuses on universities to bring mentorship and interview skills.
* Major League Hacking runs programs to fill in the gaps. Found 2 DEI challenges:
    * People who are starting their education are not aware or excited about careers in the security space. Scored the lowest in a recent survey.
    * Going from training to starting work. (building a portfolio of demonstrated work)
* As next steps, let’s put together a list of what we want to work on, the priorities and what it would look like:
    * Mentorship
    * Engineering soft skills (how to use Git, GitHub, presentations, documentation writing, pull request)
        * Suggestion (via chat) is to try and include all of this under skills development, next level top bullets. technical and professional development (project management skills, collaboration, discussion, development, writing, briefing)
    * Industry experience (internship, fellowship)
    * Career preparation (Interview prep, resume writing, coding practice, digital portfolio)
* We can focus on developing a portfolio of work.
    * Is there a solution where we have folks intern on the critical open source projects?
* Can put in a goal challenging the governing board and have all the premier members sponsor a certain number of people.
* We’ll run a Doodle poll in the Slack channel for a more permanent meeting time in 2023.

<h3>REFERENCES</h3>


May WH Committee Notes



* [Link](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Se-GiX2RmvwG6BAP8yKZiRHcKFSzZLZDiARRhh8ujnU/edit#heading=h.99huduowd9ws) 

OSSF Mobilization Plan



* [Link](https://8112310.fs1.hubspotusercontent-na1.net/hubfs/8112310/OpenSSF/White%20House%20OSS%20Mobilization%20Plan.pdf?hsCtaTracking=3b79d59d-e8d3-4c69-a67b-6b87b325313c%7C7a1a8b01-65ae-4bac-b97c-071dac09a2d8) 

<h3><TEMPLATE></h3>


<h3>Attendees </h3>


(Please **Mark your name with an X if you are here,** or add-row name/email/affiliation if joining)


<table>
  <tr>
   <td><strong>Present</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Name</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Email</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Affiliation </strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Pronouns</strong>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>Christine Abernathy*
   </td>
   <td>c.abernathy@f5.com
   </td>
   <td>F5 (Co-chair)
   </td>
   <td>she/her
   </td>
   <td>caabernathy
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>Jay White*
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>Microsoft (co-chair)
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>CRob
   </td>
   <td>crob@intel.com
   </td>
   <td>Intel
   </td>
   <td>he/him
   </td>
   <td>SecurityCRob
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>Emily Fox
   </td>
   <td>themoxiefoxatwork@gmail.com
   </td>
   <td>Apple, CNCF TOC
   </td>
   <td>she/her
   </td>
   <td>TheFoxAtWork
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>Yesenia Yser
   </td>
   <td>yyser@linuxfoundation.org
   </td>
   <td>Linux Foundation
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>cyberjiujiteira
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>Max Mizzi
   </td>
   <td>max@majorleaguehacking.com
   </td>
   <td>MLH
   </td>
   <td>he/him
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>Avishay Balter
   </td>
   <td>avbalter@microsoft.com
   </td>
   <td>Microsoft
   </td>
   <td>he/him
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>Sal Kimmich
   </td>
   <td>salkimmich@gmail.com
   </td>
   <td>EscherCloudAI
   </td>
   <td>they/them
   </td>
   <td>salkimmich
   </td>
  </tr>
</table>


<h3>Agenda</h3>




* Welcome new friends
* Anyone willing to assist in scribing?
* Collect Opens (list new items below)
*  

<h3>Opens (pending)</h3>




* 

<h3>Meeting Notes</h3>




* 
